IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010 
 
 
 
 
37 
ISSN (Online): 1694-0784 
ISSN (Print): 1694-0814 
 
 
 
 
Efficient Packet Forwarding Approach in Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks Using EBGR Algorithm 
K.Prasanth1, Dr. K. Duraiswamy2, K. Jayasudha3 and Dr. C. Chandrasekar4    
 
 1Research Scholar, Department of Information Technology 
K.S.Rangasamy College of Technology, Tiruchengode – 637 215, Tamilnadu, India  
 
 
2Dean Academic, Department of Computer Science 
K.S.Rangasamy College of Technology, Tiruchengode – 637 215, Tamilnadu, India  
 
 
3Research Scholar, Department of Computer Applications 
K.S.R College of Engineering, Tiruchengode – 637 215, Tamilnadu, India  
 
 
4Reader, Periyar University, Salem, Tamilnadu, India  
 
 
 
Abstract 
 
VANETs (Vehicular Ad hoc Networks) are highly mobile 
wireless ad hoc networks and will play an important role in 
public safety communications and commercial applications. 
Routing of data in VANETs is a challenging task due to rapidly 
changing topology and high speed mobility of vehicles. 
Conventional routing protocols in MANETs (Mobile Ad hoc 
Networks) are unable to fully address the unique characteristics 
in vehicular networks. In this paper, we propose EBGR (Edge 
Node Based Greedy Routing), a reliable greedy position based 
routing approach to forward packets to the node present in the 
edge of the transmission range of source/forwarding node as 
most suitable next hop, with consideration of nodes moving in 
the direction of the destination. We propose Revival Mobility 
model (RMM) to evaluate the performance of our routing 
technique. This paper presents a detailed description of our 
approach and simulation results show that packet delivery ratio is 
improved considerably compared to other routing techniques of 
VANET. 
 
Keywords: Vehicular Ad hoc Networks, Greedy Position Based 
Routing, EBGR, Revival Mobility Model, Packet Delivery Ratio. 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Inter-vehicle 
communication 
(IVC) 
is 
attracting 
considerable attention from the research community and 
the automotive industry. It is beneficial in providing 
intelligent transportation system (ITS) as well as drivers 
and passenger’s assistant services. VANETs is a form of 
mobile ad hoc network providing communications among 
nearby vehicles as well as between vehicles and nearby 
fixed equipment, usually described as roadside equipment. 
VANETs have similar or different radio interface 
technologies, employing short-range to medium-range 
communication systems. The radio range of VANETs is 
several hundred meters, typically between 250 and 300 
meters. In US, the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) has allocated 75 MHz in 5.9 GHz band for licensed 
Dedicated Short Range Communication (DSRC) for 
vehicle-to-vehicle 
and 
vehicle 
to 
infrastructure 
communications. 
In 
Europe, 
the 
Car-to- 
Car 
Communication Consortium (C2C-CC) has been initiated 
by car manufacturers and automotive OEMs (original 
equipment manufacturers), with the main objective of 
increasing road traffic safety and efficiency by means of 
inter-vehicle communication.  
 
2. Related Work 
 
In this section, we briefly summarize the characteristics of 
VANETs related to routing and also we will survey the 
existing routing schemes in both MANETs and VANETs 
in vehicular environments.  
 
2.1. VANETs Characteristics 
 
In the following, we summarize the unique characteristics 
of VANETs compared with MANETs. 
 
Unlimited transmission power: Mobile device power 
issues are not a significant constraint in vehicular 
Networks. Since the vehicle itself can provide continuous 
power to computing and communication devices. 
High computational capability: Operating vehicles can 
afford significant computing, communication and sensing 
capabilities. 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
38 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
Highly dynamic topology: Vehicular network scenarios 
are very different from classic ad hoc networks. In 
VANETs, vehicles can move fast. It can join and leave the 
network much more frequently than MANETs. Since the 
radio range is small compared with the high speed of 
vehicles (typically, the radio range is only 250 meters 
while the speed for vehicles in freeway will be 30m/s). 
This indicates the topology in VANETs changes much 
more frequently. 
Predicable Mobility: Unlike classic mobile ad hoc 
networks, where it is hard to predict the nodes’ mobility, 
vehicles tend to have very predictable movements that are 
(usually) limited to roadways. The movement of nodes in 
VANETs is constrained by the layout of roads. Roadway 
information is often available from positioning systems 
and map based technologies such as GPS. Each pair of 
nodes can communicate directly when they are within the 
radio range.  
Potentially large scale: Unlike most ad hoc networks 
studied in the literature that usually assume a limited 
network size, vehicular networks can is extended over the 
entire road network and include many participants. 
Partitioned 
network: 
Vehicular 
networks 
will 
be 
frequently partitioned. The dynamic nature of traffic may 
result in large inter-vehicle gaps in sparsely populated 
scenarios and hence in several isolated clusters of nodes. 
Network connectivity: The degree to which the network is 
connected is highly dependent on two factors: the range of 
wireless links and the fraction of participant vehicles, 
where only a fraction of vehicles on the road could be 
equipped with wireless interfaces. 
 
2.2 Routing protocols in MANET 
 
The routing protocols in MANETs can be classified by 
their properties. On one hand, they can be classified into 
two categories, proactive and reactive. 
 
Proactive routing algorithms employ classical routing 
strategies such as distance-vector routing (e.g., DSDV [1]) 
or link-state routing (e.g., OLSR [2] and TBRPF [3]). 
They maintain routing information about the available 
paths in the network even if these paths are not currently 
used. The main drawback of these approaches is that the 
maintenance of unused paths may occupy a significant part 
of the available bandwidth if the topology of the network 
changes frequently [4]. Since a network between cars is 
extremely dynamic we did not further investigate 
proactive approaches. 
Reactive routing protocols such as DSR [5], TORA [6], 
and AODV [7] maintain only the routes that are currently 
in use, thereby reducing the burden on the network when 
only a small subset of all available routes is in use at any 
time. It can be expected that communication between cars 
will only use a very limited number of routes, therefore 
reactive routing seems to fit this application scenario. As a 
representative of the reactive approaches we have chosen 
DSR, since it has been shown to be superior to many other 
existing reactive ad-hoc routing protocols in [8]. 
Position-based routing algorithms require information 
about the physical position of the participating nodes. This 
position is made available to the direct neighbors in the 
form periodically transmitted beacons. A sender can 
request the position of a receiver by means of a location 
service. The routing decision at each node is then based on 
the destination’s position contained in the packet and the 
position of the forwarding node’s neighbors. Position-
based routing does not require the establishment or 
maintenance of routes. Examples for position-based 
routing algorithms are face-2 [9], GPSR [10], DREAM 
[11] and terminodes routing [12]. As a representative of 
the position based algorithms we have selected GPSR, 
(which is algorithmically identical to face-2), since it 
seems to be scalable and well suited for very dynamic 
networks. 
 
2.3. Routing protocols in VANET 
 
Following are a summary of representative VANETs 
routing algorithms. 
 
2.3.1 GSR (Geographic Source Routing) 
 
Lochert et al. in [13] proposed GSR, a position-based 
routing with topological information. This approach 
employs greedy forwarding along a pre-selected shortest 
path. The simulation results show that GSR outperforms 
topology based approaches (AODV and DSR) with respect 
to packet delivery ratio and latency by using realistic 
vehicular traffic. But this approach neglects the case that 
there are not enough nodes for forwarding packets when 
the traffic density is low. Low traffic density will make it 
difficult to find an end-to-end connection along the pre-
selected path. 
 
2.3.2 GPCR (Greedy Perimeter Coordinator Routing) 
 
To deal with the challenges of city scenarios, Lochert et al. 
designed GPCR in [14]. This protocol employs a restricted 
greedy forwarding procedure along a preselected path. 
When choosing the next hop, a coordinator (the node on a 
junction) is preferred to a non coordinator node, even if it 
is not the geographical closest node to destination. Similar 
to GSR, GPCR neglects the case of low traffic density as 
well. 
 
2.3.3 A-STAR (Anchor-based Street and Traffic Aware 
          Routing)  
  
To guarantee an end-to-end connection even in a vehicular 
network with low traffic density, Seet et al. proposed A-
STAR [15]. A-STAR uses information on city bus routes 
to identify an anchor path with high connectivity for 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
39 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
packet delivery. By using an anchor path, A-STAR 
guarantees to find an end-to-end connection even in the 
case of low traffic density. This position-based scheme 
also employs a route recovery strategy when the packets 
are routed to a local optimum by computing a new anchor 
path from local maximum to which the packet is routed. 
The simulation results show A-STAR achieves obvious 
network performance improvement compared with GSR 
and GPSR. But the routing path may not be optimal 
because it is along the anchor path. It results in large 
delay. 
 
2.3.4 MDDV (Mobility-Centric Data Dissemination  
         Algorithm for Vehicular Networks)  
 
To achieve reliable and efficient routing, Wu et al. 
proposed MDDV [16] that combines opportunistic 
forwarding, geographical forwarding, and trajectory-based 
forwarding. MDDV takes into account the traffic density. 
A forwarding trajectory is specified extending from the 
source to the destination (trajectory-based forwarding), 
along which a message will be moved geographically 
closer to the destination (geographical forwarding). The 
selection of forwarding trajectory uses the geographical 
knowledge and traffic density. MDDV assumes the traffic 
density is static. Messages are forwarded along the 
forwarding trajectory through intermediate nodes which 
store and forward messages opportunistically. This 
approach is focusing on reliable routing. The trajectory-
based forwarding will lead to large delay if the traffic 
density varies by time. 
 
2.3.5 VADD (Vehicle-Assisted Data Delivery) 
 
To guarantee an end-to-end connection in a sparse network 
with tolerable delay, Zhao and Cao proposed VADD [17] 
based on the idea of carry and forward by using predicable 
mobility specific to the sparse networks. Instead of routing 
along a pre-select path, VADD chooses next hop based on 
the highest pre-defined direction priority by selecting the 
closest one to the destination. The simulation results show 
VADD outperforms GPSR in terms of packet delivery 
ratio, data packet delay, and traffic overhead. This 
approach predicts the directions of vehicles movement. 
But it doesn’t predict the environment change in the 
future. 
 
2.3.6 PDGR (Predictive Directional Greedy Routing) 
 
Jiayu Gong proposed PDGR [18], in which the weighted 
score is calculated for current neighbors and possible 
future neighbors of packet carrier. With Predictive DGR 
the weighted scores of immediate nodes 2-hops away are 
also calculated beforehand. Here next hop selection is 
done on prediction and it is not reliable at all situations. It 
doesn’t guarantee the delivery of packet to the node 
present in the edge of the transmission range of forwarding 
node, which is considered as most suitable next hop, due 
to high dynamics of vehicles. This will lead to low packet 
delivery ratio, high end to end delay and increased packet 
drops. 
The various routing protocols of MANETs and VANETs 
are analyzed and drawbacks of those routing protocols are 
described in the Table 1. 
     
Table 1 
Drawbacks of routing protocols in MANET and VANET 
 
Routing Protocols 
Drawbacks 
GPSR 
Frequent network disconnection. 
Routing loops. 
Too many hops. 
Routing in wrong direction. 
GSR 
End to end connection is difficult in 
low traffic density. 
GPCR 
End to end connection is difficult in 
low traffic density. 
 
A-STAR 
 
Routing paths are not optimal and 
results in large delay of packet 
transmission 
MDDV 
Large delay if the traffic density varies 
by time. 
VADD 
Large delay due to varying topology 
and varying traffic density. 
PDGR 
 
Too many hops. 
Large delay if the traffic density is 
high. 
Low packet delivery ratio. 
Frequent network disconnection. 
3. Proposed Routing Algorithm 
3.1. Edge Node Based Greedy Routing Algorithm  
       (EBGR) 
 
EBGR is a reliable greedy position base routing algorithm 
designed for sending messages from any node to any other 
node (unicast) or from one node to all other nodes 
(broadcast/multicast) in a vehicular ad hoc network. The 
general design goals of the EBGR algorithm are to 
optimize the packet behavior for ad hoc networks with 
high mobility and to deliver messages with high reliability.  
 
The EBGR algorithm has six basic functional units. First is 
Neighbor Node Identification (NNI), second is Distance 
Calculation 
(DC), 
third 
is 
Direction 
of 
Motion 
Identification (DMI), fourth is Reckoning Link Stability 
(RLS), fifth is Potential score calculation (PS) and sixth is 
Edge Node Selection (ENS). The NNI is responsible for 
collection of information of all neighbor nodes present 
within the transmission range of source/forwarder node at 
any time. The DC is responsible for calculating the 
closeness of next hop using distance information from the 
GPS. DMI is responsible to identify the direction of 
motion of neighbor nodes which is moving towards the 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
40 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
direction of destination. The RLS is responsible for 
identifying link stability between the source/forwarder 
node and its neighbor nodes. The PS is responsible to 
calculate potential score and identifies the neighbor node 
having higher potential for further forwarding of a 
particular packet to destination. The ENS is responsible to 
select an edge node having higher potential score in 
different levels of transmission range. In the following 
section, the general assumptions of EBGR algorithm are 
briefly discussed and then functional units of EBGR 
algorithm are discussed in detail.  
 
3.2. Assumptions 
 
The algorithm design is based on the following 
assumptions: All nodes are equipped with GPS receivers, 
digital maps, optional sensors and On Board Units (OBU). 
Location information of all vehicles/nodes can be 
identified with the help of GPS receivers. The only 
communications paths available are via the ad-hoc 
network 
and 
there 
is 
no 
other 
communication 
infrastructure. Node power is not the limiting factor for the 
design. Communications are message oriented. The 
Maximum Transmission Range (MTR) of each node in the 
environment is 250m. 
 
3.3. Neighbor Node Identification (NNI) 
 
Neighbor node identification is the process whereby a 
vehicle/node identifies its current neighbors within its 
transmission range. For a particular vehicle, any other 
vehicle that is within its radio transmission range is called 
a neighbor. All vehicles consist of neighbor set which 
holds details of its neighbor vehicles.  Since all nodes 
might be moving, the neighbors for a particular mobile 
node are always changing. The neighbor set is dynamic 
and needs to be updated frequently. Generally, neighbor 
node identification is realized by using periodic beacon 
messages. The beacon message consists of node ID, node 
location and timestamp. Each node informs other nodes of 
its existence by sending out beacon message periodically. 
All nodes within the transmission range of source/packet 
forwarding node will intimate its presence by sending a 
beacon message every µ  second. After the reception of a 
beacon, each node will update its neighbor set table. If a 
node position is changed, then it will update its position to 
all neighbors by sending beacon signal. If a known 
neighbor, times out after α * µ   seconds without having 
received a beacon (α  is the number of beacons that a 
node is allowed to miss) and it will be removed from the 
neighbor set table. 
 
3.4. Distance calculation (DC) 
 
The 
location 
and 
distance 
information 
of 
all 
vehicles/nodes can be identified with the help of GPS 
receivers. It can be communicated to neighbor vehicles 
using periodic beacon messages. The neighbor node which 
is closer to the destination node is calculated. The 
closeness of next hop is identified by the mathematical 
model [18] and it is shown in Fig.1. 
 
𝑫𝑫𝑫𝑫= ൬ 𝟏𝟏−𝑫𝑫𝒊𝒊
𝑫𝑫𝒄𝒄
 ൰ 
 
   𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯, 
   𝑫𝑫𝒊𝒊  ∶𝑆𝑆ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡
 
              𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐷𝐷. 
   𝑫𝑫𝒄𝒄 ∶ 𝑆𝑆ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓
 
              𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑐𝑐 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐷𝐷. 
   𝑫𝑫𝒊𝒊
𝑫𝑫𝒄𝒄
 ∶ 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜. 
 
 
Fig. 1 Distance Calculation in EBGR  
 
3.5. Direction of Motion Identification (DMI) 
 
The appropriate neighbor node which is moving towards 
the direction of destination node is identified using the 
mathematical model [18] and it is shown in Fig.2. 
 
𝑫𝑫𝑫𝑫𝑫𝑫= 𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐬𝐬൫ 𝝊𝝊ሬ⃗𝒊𝒊,  𝒍𝒍⃗𝒊𝒊,𝒅𝒅൯ 
 
   𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯, 
    𝝊𝝊ሬ⃗𝒊𝒊 ∶ 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖. 
   𝒍𝒍⃗𝒊𝒊,𝒅𝒅∶ 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒  
              𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝐷𝐷.  
   𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐬𝐬൫ 𝝊𝝊ሬ⃗𝒊𝒊,  𝒍𝒍⃗𝒊𝒊,𝒅𝒅൯∶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 
                                 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 
 
 
Fig. 2 Direction of Movement Identification in EBGR  
 
The cosine value of vector for velocity of edge node i and 
vector for location of edge node i to the location of 
destination node D is measured. A large cosine value 
implies a vehicle/node can still approach the destination 
closer and closer along its current direction. 
 
3.6 Reckoning Link Stability (RLS) 
 
Each vehicle estimates the Link Stability (LS) for each 
neighboring vehicle before selecting the next hop for the 
data forwarding/sending. The LS is a relation between the 
link communication lifetime and a constant value (say: σ) 
which represents in general cases the routing route validity 
time, and it depends on the used routing protocol. Fig.3 
shows how link lifetimes are estimated [19] based on 
neighbors' movement information.  
 
The lifetime of the link (i, j) 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿[𝑖𝑖, 𝑗𝑗] corresponds to 
the estimated time 𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥= 𝑡𝑡1 −𝑡𝑡0 with 𝑡𝑡1 is the time when 
𝐷𝐷1 becomes equal or bigger than the communication range 
R (i.e. the time when j goes out of the communication 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
41 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
range of i). 𝐷𝐷1  and 𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥 are estimated using the initial 
positions of i and j ((𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖0 , 𝑌𝑌𝑖𝑖0) and ൫𝑋𝑋𝑗𝑗0 , 𝑌𝑌𝑗𝑗0൯, and their 
initial speeds  𝑉𝑉ሬ⃗𝑖𝑖 and  𝑉𝑉ሬ⃗𝑗𝑗 respectively). 
    
 
         𝐷𝐷1
2 = ((𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖0 + 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑖𝑖𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥) −൫𝑋𝑋𝑗𝑗0 + 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑗𝑗𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥൯
+  (𝑌𝑌𝑖𝑖0 + 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑖𝑖𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥) −(𝑌𝑌𝑗𝑗0 + 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑗𝑗𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥))2 
         𝐷𝐷1
2 = 𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴2 + 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵+ 𝐶𝐶    
         𝐴𝐴= ൫𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑖𝑖− 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑗𝑗൯
2 + ൫𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑖𝑖− 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑗𝑗൯
2  
        𝐵𝐵= 2[൫𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖0 − 𝑋𝑋𝑗𝑗0൯൫𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑖𝑖− 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑗𝑗൯  
                             +൫𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖0 − 𝑋𝑋𝑗𝑗0൯൫𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑖𝑖− 𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑗𝑗൯]   
        𝐶𝐶= ൫𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖0 − 𝑋𝑋𝑗𝑗0൯
2 + ൫𝑌𝑌𝑖𝑖0 − 𝑌𝑌𝑗𝑗0൯
2  
                    
         𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒: 
         𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴2 + 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵+ 𝐶𝐶−𝑅𝑅2 = 0   
         𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓  𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥.  
         𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿[𝑖𝑖, 𝑗𝑗] = 𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥  
 
 
𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳[𝒊𝒊, 𝒋𝒋] = 𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳[𝒊𝒊, 𝒋𝒋]
𝛔𝛔
 
 
         𝐻𝐻𝐻𝐻𝐻𝐻𝐻𝐻, 
         𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿[𝑖𝑖, 𝑗𝑗] = 1  𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿[𝑖𝑖, 𝑗𝑗] ≥σ    
 
        𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝒊𝒊,𝒋𝒋∶ 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑗𝑗.                   
                         
          
 
Fig. 3 Reckoning Link Stability in EBGR  
 
Once LS is calculated for each neighboring vehicle, EBGR 
selects the node corresponding to the highest LS 
(corresponding to the most stable neighboring link) as next 
hop for data forwarding. This approach should help as well 
in minimizing the risk of broken links and in reducing 
packet loss. 
 
3.7 Potential Score Calculation (PS) 
 
The potential score (PS) of all nodes present within the 
different levels of transmission range of source/packet 
forwarding node is calculated. The potential score (PS) is 
calculated to identify the closeness of next hop to 
destination, direction of motion of nodes and reliability of 
neighbor nodes. The appropriate edge node with largest 
potential score will be considered as having higher 
potential to reach the destination node and that particular 
node can be chosen as next hop to forward the packet to 
the destination node. Potential score is calculated by 
addition of DC, DMI and LS and that mathematical model 
represented in Fig.4.  
 
 
𝑷𝑷𝑷𝑷𝒊𝒊=  𝛒𝛒× 𝐃𝐃𝐃𝐃 +  𝝎𝝎×  𝐃𝐃𝐃𝐃𝐃𝐃+ 𝛌𝛌× 𝐋𝐋𝐋𝐋 
 
 
𝑷𝑷𝑷𝑷𝒊𝒊=  𝛒𝛒× ൬ 𝟏𝟏−𝑫𝑫𝒊𝒊
𝑫𝑫𝒄𝒄
 ൰ +   𝝎𝝎× 𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐬𝐬൫ 𝝊𝝊ሬ⃗𝒊𝒊,  𝒍𝒍⃗𝒊𝒊,𝒅𝒅൯+ 𝛌𝛌× 𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝒄𝒄,𝒊𝒊 
 
   𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯𝑯, 
   𝑷𝑷𝑷𝑷𝒊𝒊 ∶𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖 
   𝛒𝛒, 𝝎𝝎, 𝛌𝛌∶𝑃𝑃𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 
   𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿  𝛒𝛒 + 𝝎𝝎+ 𝛌𝛌 = 𝟏𝟏 ;  𝛌𝛌> 𝛒𝛒 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝛌𝛌> 𝝎𝝎 
   𝑫𝑫𝒊𝒊  ∶𝑆𝑆ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡  
            𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐷𝐷. 
   𝑫𝑫𝒄𝒄 ∶𝑆𝑆ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝  
           𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑐𝑐 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐷𝐷.  
   𝑫𝑫𝒊𝒊
𝑫𝑫𝒄𝒄
  ∶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜. 
    𝝊𝝊ሬ⃗𝒊𝒊  ∶𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖. 
    𝒍𝒍⃗𝒊𝒊,𝒅𝒅∶𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉𝑉 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛  
            𝑖𝑖 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝐷𝐷 
   𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐜𝐬𝐬൫ 𝝊𝝊ሬ⃗𝒊𝒊,  𝒍𝒍⃗𝒊𝒊,𝒅𝒅൯∶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚  
                          𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣    
   𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝒄𝒄,𝒊𝒊∶ 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓  
               𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑐𝑐 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑖𝑖.  
 
 
Fig. 4 Potential Score Calculation in EBGR 
 
3.8. Edge Node Selection (ENS) 
 
In the Edge Node Selection, edge nodes are selected for 
packet forwarding event. An edge node is a node which 
has shortest distance to the destination D compared to all 
other nodes within the different levels of transmission 
range of source/packet forwarding node. 
 
 
 
 
Fig 5: Different Levels of Transmission Range in EBGR 
 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
42 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
The different levels of transmission range are considered 
to avoid packet loss due to high speed mobility of 
vehicles. An edge node has the responsibility of saving 
received data packets in forwarding table and transfers it 
later when those nodes meet new neighbors. The overall 
objective of the algorithm is to forward the packet as soon 
as possible to increase packet delivery ratio, minimize the 
end to end delay and avoid packet loss. The MTR of a 
vehicle/node is 250m.The other levels of transmission 
range is considerably less than MTR. The different levels 
of transmission range is shown in Fig.5 which includes, 
Maximum Transmission Range (i.e. MTR=250m) 
Level1 transmission range (i.e.L1TR=200m) 
Level2 transmission range (i.e.L2TR=150m)  
Level3 transmission range (i.e.L3TR=100m)  
Level4 transmission range (i.e.L4TR=50m). 
 
  𝑴𝑴𝑴𝑴𝑴𝑴: 𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅= 250𝑚𝑚 
  𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳: 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿1 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅 =  200𝑚𝑚  
  𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳: 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿2 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅 =  150𝑚𝑚 
  𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳: 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿3 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅 =  100𝑚𝑚 
  𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳𝑳: 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿4 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅 =  50𝑚𝑚 
  𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄𝒄: 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 
  𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒄𝒄: 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛  
  𝒗𝒗𝒄𝒄
ሬሬሬሬ⃗: 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 
  𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅: 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 
  𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒅𝒅:𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 
  𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏: 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 
  𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒏𝒊𝒊: 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝒊𝒊𝑡𝑡ℎ 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 
  𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒍𝒊𝒊:𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝒊𝒊𝑡𝑡ℎ 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 
   𝝊𝝊
ሬሬሬ⃗𝒊𝒊: 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝒊𝒊𝑡𝑡ℎ 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 
 
1. 
𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑐𝑐 ← 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔(𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐) 
2. 
𝑣𝑣𝑐𝑐
ሬሬሬ⃗ ←  𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔(𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐) 
3. 
𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑   ←  𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔(𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑) 
4. 
𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐 = 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑(locc , locd) 
5. 
𝑙𝑙𝑐𝑐,𝑑𝑑
ሬሬሬሬሬሬ⃗ = 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑  –  𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑐𝑐  
6. 
𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃=  𝜔𝜔× cos⁡( 𝑣𝑣𝑐𝑐
ሬሬሬሬ⃗, 𝑙𝑙𝑐𝑐,𝑑𝑑
ሬሬሬሬሬሬ⃗ ) 
7. 
𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛= 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 
8. 
𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝒂𝒂𝒂𝒂𝒂𝒂 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
9. 
𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖 ← 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔( 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 ) 
10.  𝜐𝜐⃗𝑖𝑖  ←  𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔(𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖) 
11. 𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖  =   𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑(𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑 , 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖) 
12. 𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  =   𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑(𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑐𝑐 , 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖) 
13. 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝒂𝒂𝒂𝒂𝒂𝒂 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
14. 𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊 (𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  <  𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀  &&  𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  > 𝐿𝐿1𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇)   
15.  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑 = 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑  –  𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖 
16. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖=  ρ × ቀ 1 −
𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖
𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐 ቁ +   𝜔𝜔× co s൫ 𝜐𝜐⃗𝑖𝑖,  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑൯+ λ × 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝑐𝑐,𝑖𝑖 
17. 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
18. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃= 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 
19. 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛= 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 
20. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
21. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊 (𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  <  𝐿𝐿1𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇  &&  𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  > 𝐿𝐿2𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇)   
22.  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑 = 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑  –  𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖 
23. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖=  ρ × ቀ 1 −
𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖
𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐 ቁ +   𝜔𝜔× co s൫ 𝜐𝜐⃗𝑖𝑖,  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑൯+ λ × 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝑐𝑐,𝑖𝑖 
24. 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
25. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃= 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 
26. 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛= 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 
27. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
28. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊 (𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  <  𝐿𝐿2𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇  &&  𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  > 𝐿𝐿3𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇)   
29.  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑 = 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑  –  𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖 
30. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖=  ρ × ቀ 1 −
𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖
𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐 ቁ +   𝜔𝜔× co s൫ 𝜐𝜐⃗𝑖𝑖,  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑൯+ λ × 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝑐𝑐,𝑖𝑖 
31. 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
32. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃= 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 
33. 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛= 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 
34. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
35. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊 (𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  <  𝐿𝐿3𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇  &&  𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  > 𝐿𝐿4𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇) 
36.  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑 = 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑  –  𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖 
37. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖=  ρ × ቀ 1 −
𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖
𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐 ቁ +   𝜔𝜔× co s൫ 𝜐𝜐⃗𝑖𝑖,  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑൯+ λ × 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝑐𝑐,𝑖𝑖 
38. 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
39. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃= 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 
40. 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛= 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 
41. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
42. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊 (𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐  <  𝐿𝐿4𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇) 
43.  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑 = 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑑𝑑  –  𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖 
44. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖=  ρ × ቀ 1 −
𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖
𝐷𝐷𝑐𝑐 ቁ +   𝜔𝜔× co s൫ 𝜐𝜐⃗𝑖𝑖,  𝑙𝑙⃗𝑖𝑖,𝑑𝑑൯+ λ × 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝑐𝑐,𝑖𝑖 
45. 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅 
46. 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃= 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑖𝑖 
47. 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛= 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛ℎ𝑖𝑖 
48. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
49. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆  
50. 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 
51. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒊𝒊𝒊𝒊 
52. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
53. 𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆𝒆 𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇𝒇 
 
 
Fig. 6 Pseudo code of EBGR Algorithm 
 
Step1: Neighbor nodes having distance between 250m and 
200m from the current node falls between MTR and 
L1TR. The potential score of all nodes present between the 
transmission range of MTR and L1TR are calculated.  The 
node which is having higher potential score is considered 
as edge node of the MTR. So the packet from the current 
node is forwarded to that particular edge node. If no node 
present between MTR and L1TR, then L1TR and L2TR 
are considered. 
 
Step2: Neighbor nodes having distance between 200m and 
150m from the current node falls between L1TR and 
L2TR. The potential score of all nodes present between the 
transmission range of L1TR and L2TR are calculated.  The 
node which is having higher potential score is considered 
as edge node of the L1TR.So the packet from the current 
node is forwarded to that particular edge node. If no node 
present between L1TR and L2TR, then L2TR and L3TR 
are considered. 
 
Step3: Neighbor nodes having distance between 150m and 
100m from the current node falls between L2TR and 
L3TR. The potential score of all nodes present between the 
transmission range of L2TR and L3TR are calculated.  The 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
43 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
node which is having higher potential score is considered 
as edge node of the L2TR.So the packet from the current 
node is forwarded to that particular edge node. If no node 
present between L2TR and L3TR, L3TR and L4TR are 
considered. 
 
Step4: Neighbor nodes having distance between 100m and 
50m from the current node falls between L3TR and L4TR. 
The potential score of all nodes present between the 
transmission range of L3TR and L4TR are calculated.  The 
node which is having higher potential score is considered 
as edge node of the L3TR.So the packet from the current 
node is forwarded to that particular edge node. If no node 
present between L3TR and L4TR, then L4TR are 
considered. 
 
Step5: Neighbor nodes having distance within 50m from 
the current node falls to L4TR. The potential score of all 
nodes present L4TR are calculated.  The node which is 
having higher potential score is considered as edge node of 
the L4TR.So the packet from the current node is 
forwarded to that particular edge node. If no node present 
in any of the above mentioned range, then the current node 
store and carry the packet until it find some other node 
comes within its transmission range. The pseudo code of 
ENS algorithm is illustrated in Fig.6. 
 
4. Simulation Results and Analysis 
 
In this section, we evaluate the performance of routing 
protocols of vehicular networks in an open environment. 
So among the routing protocols we aforementioned, we 
choose GPSR, PDGR and EBGR for comparison. 
 
4.1 Revival Mobility model (RMM) 
 
We use Revival Mobility model (RMM) to simulate the 
movement pattern of moving vehicles on streets or roads 
defined by maps from the GPS equipped in the vehicles.  
In Revival Mobility model (RMM), the road comprises of 
two or more lanes. Vehicles or nodes are randomly 
distributed with linear node density. Each vehicle can 
move in different speed. This mobility model allows the 
movement of vehicles in two directions. i.e. north/south 
for the vertical roads and east/west for the horizontal 
roads. In cross roads, vehicles choose desired direction 
based on the shortest path. A security distance should be 
maintained between two subsequent vehicles in a lane. 
Overtaking mechanism is applicable and one vehicle can 
able to overtake the preceding vehicle. Packet transmission 
is possible and can be done by vehicles moving in both 
directions, which means front hopping and back hopping 
of data packet is possible as shown in the Fig.7. 
 
 
Fig.7 Revival Mobility Model 
 
In 
this 
mobility, 
deterministic 
and 
instantaneous 
transmission mechanism in which a message is available 
for receiving within a certain radius r=250m from the 
sender with certainty, but unavailable further away. 
Vehicles can unicast, multicast and broadcast packets to 
the neighbor vehicle which is present within its 
transmission range. 
 
Table 2 
 Simulation Parameters 
Parameter 
Value 
Simulation Area 
1000m * 1000m 
Number of Vehicles 
20 - 100 
Average speed of vehicles 
0  – 25 metre/second 
Number of packet Senders 
40 
Transmission Range 
250m 
Constant Bit Rate 
2 (Packets/Second) 
Packet Size 
512 Bytes 
Vehicle beacon interval 
0.5 (Seconds ) 
MAC Protocol 
802.11 DCF 
 
The Simulations were carried out using Network 
Simulator (NS-2) ([20]). We are simulating the vehicular 
ad hoc routing protocols using this simulator by varying 
the number of nodes. The IEEE 802.11 Distributed 
Coordination Function (DCF) is used as the Medium 
Access Control Protocol. The packet size was fixed to 512 
bytes. The Traffic sources are UDP. Initially the nodes 
were placed at certain specific locations, and then the 
nodes move with varying speeds towards new locations. 
The nodes move with speeds up to 25 meter/sec. For 
fairness, identical mobility and traffic scenarios were used 
across 
the 
different 
simulations. 
The 
simulation 
parameters are specified in Table 2 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
44 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
 
4.2. Performance Metrics to evaluate simulation 
 
In order to evaluate the performance of vehicular ad hoc 
network routing protocols, the following metric is 
considered. 
Packet delivery ratio (PDR): The ratio of the packets that 
successfully reach destination.  
 
𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃= 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝  𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑
𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 × 100 
 
4.3 Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Number of Nodes  
 
In this part, we compare the packet delivery ratio with 
number of nodes and it is shown in Fig.8. Initially the 
packet delivery ratio is less for GPSR, PDGR and EBGR. 
When the number of node increases, then packet delivery 
for all routing algorithms increases. More nodes in 
network will provide more opportunities to find some 
suitable node for forwarding of packet. When no node 
available, GPSR switches to perimeter mode and it 
increases delay of packet transmission, which results in 
lower packet delivery ratio. PDGR have comparatively 
high packet delivery ratio compared with GPSR. PDGR 
considers its 2 hop neighbors for packet forwarding based 
on prediction. But prediction is not reliable at all 
situations. Due to high mobility, packet forwarded to edge 
of the transmission range will be lost. In EBGR, the next 
hop selection is done by considering the potential score. 
By using EBGR, the packet loss is minimized 
considerably and the packet delivery ratio is improved for 
about 11.6% in comparison with PDGR with the increase 
in number of vehicles.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Number of Nodes  
 
                                
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9: Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Transmission range  
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10: Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Mobility.  
 
4.4 Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Transmission Range  
 
In this part, we compare the packet delivery ratio with 
different levels of transmission range and it is shown in 
Fig.9.The GPSR and PDGR always select the immediate 
one hop and two hop neighbors respectively to forward the 
packet. When many neighbor nodes are present, then 
numbers of hops are increased in GPSR and PDGR. This 
will decrease PDR. In EBGR, the vehicle always selects 
the neighbor node based on different levels of transmission 
range (i.e. L1TR, L2TR, and L3TR & L4TR) using 
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
20
60
100
Packet Delivery Ratio
Number of  Nodes
GPSR
PDGR
EBGR
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
50
150
250
Packet Delivery Ratio
Transmission Range (metres)
GPSR
PDGR
EBGR
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
5
15
25
Packet Delivery Ratio
Mobility (metre/second)
GPSR
PDGR
EBGR
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
45 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
distance information from GPS. By using EBGR, the 
numbers of hops are minimized considerably and the 
packet delivery ratio is improved for about 15.5% in 
comparison with PDGR with the different levels of 
transmission range. 
 
4.5 Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Mobility  
 
In this part, we compare the packet delivery ratio with 
varying speed of vehicles and it is shown in Fig.10. When 
the speed of vehicle increases, the packet delivery ratio of 
GPSR and PDGR decreases much faster than others. The 
high speed of vehicles leads to packet loss in edge of 
MTR. By using EBGR, the packet loss at the edge of MTR 
is minimized considerably and the packet delivery ratio is 
improved for about 12.5% in comparison with PDGR with 
the increase in speed of vehicles.  
  
5. Conclusion 
 
In this paper we have investigated routing aspects of 
VANETs. We have identified the properties of VANETs 
and previous studies on routing in MANETs and 
VANETs. We have commented on their contributions, and 
limitations. By using the uniqueness of VANETs, we have 
proposed Revival Mobility Model and a new position 
based greedy routing approach EBGR. Our simulation 
results have shows EBGR outperform GPSR and PDGR 
significantly in the terms of improving the packet delivery 
ratio. In the future, our approach requires modifications by 
taking into account the city environment characteristics 
and different mobility models with obstacles. Comparison 
of proposed EBGR approach with other existing approach 
shows that our routing algorithm is considerably better 
than other routing algorithms in improving the packet 
delivery ratio. 
 
References 
 
[1]. Charles E. Perkins and Pravin Bhagwat, “Highly dynamic 
destination-sequenced distance-vector routing (DSDV),” in 
Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM’94 Conference on 
Communications Architectures, Protocols and Applications, 
1994. 
[2]. T. H. Clausen and P. Jacquet. “Optimized Link State 
Routing (OLSR)”, RFC 3626, 2003. 
[3]. Richard G. Ogier , Fred L. Templin , Bhargav Bellur , and 
Mark G. Lewis , “Topology broadcast based on reverse-path 
forwarding (tbrpf),” Internet Draft, draft-ietf-manet-tbrpf-
03.txt, work in progress, November 2001. 
[4]. S. R. Das, R. Castaneda, and J. Yan, “Simulation based 
performance evaluation of mobile, ad hoc network routing 
protocols,” ACM/Baltzer Mobile Networks and Applications 
(MONET) Journal, pp. 179–189, July 2000. 
[5]. David B. Johnson and David A. Maltz, “Dynamic Source 
routing in ad hoc wireless networks,” in Mobile Computing, 
Tomasz Imielinske and Hank Korth, Eds., vol. 353. Kluwer 
Academic Publishers, 1996. 
[6]. Vincent D. Park and M. Scott Corson, “A highly adaptive 
distributed routing algorithm for mobile wireless networks,” 
in Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOMM, 1997, pp. 1405–
1413. 
[7]. Charles E. Perkins and Elizabeth M. Royer, “Adhoc on-
demand distance vector routing,” in Proceedings of the 2nd 
IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems and 
Applications, February 1999, pp. 1405–1413. 
[8]. Josh Broch , David A. Maltz , David B. Johnson , Yih-Chun 
Hu , and Jorjeta Jetcheva , “A performance comparison of          
multi-hop wireless ad hoc network routing protocols,” in 
Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACM/IEEE International 
  Conference 
on 
Mobile 
Computing and 
Networking 
(MobiCom ’98), Dallas, Texas, U.S.A., October 1998, pp. 
85 – 97. 
[9]. P. Bose, P. Morin, I. Stojmenovic, and J. Urrutia, “Routing 
with guaranteed delivery in ad hoc wireless networks,” in 
Proc. of 3rd ACM Intl. Workshop on Discrete Algorithms 
and Methods for Mobile Computing and Communications 
DIAL M99, 1999, pp. 48–55. 
[10]. Brad Karp and H. T. Kung, “GPSR: Greedy perimeter 
stateless routing for wireless networks,” in Proceedings of 
the 6th Annual ACM/IEEE International Conference on 
Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom 2000), 
Boston, MA, U.S.A., August 2000, pp. 243–254. 
[11]. Stefano Basagni, Imrich Chlamtac, Violet R. Syrotiuk, and 
Barry A.Woodward, “A distance routing effect algorithm 
for mobility (dream),” in ACM MOBICOM ’98. ACM, 
1998, pp. 76 – 84. 
[12]. Ljubica Blazevic , Silvia Giordano , and Jean- Yves Le 
Boudec 
, 
“Self-organizing 
wide-area 
routing,” 
in 
Proceedings of SCI 2000/ISAS 2000,Orlando, July 2000. 
[13]. C. Lochert, H. Hartenstein, J. Tian, D. Herrmann, H. Fubler, 
M. Mauve: “A Routing Strategy for Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks in City Environments”, IEEE Intelligent Vehicles 
Symposium (IV2003). 
[14]. C. Lochert, M. Mauve, H. Fler, H. Hartenstein. “Geographic 
Routing in City Scenarios” (poster), MobiCom. 2004, ACM 
SIGMOBILE Mobile Computing and Communications 
Review (MC2R) 9 (1), pp. 69–72, 2005. 
[15]. B.-C. Seet, G. Liu, B.-S. Lee, C. H. Foh, K. J. Wong, K.-K. 
Lee. “A-STAR: A Mobile Ad Hoc Routing Strategy for 
Metropolis Vehicular Communications”, NETWORKING 
2004. 
[16]. H. Wu, R. Fujimoto, R. Guensler and M. Hunter. “MDDV: 
A Mobility-Centric Data Dissemination Algorithm for 
Vehicular Networks”, ACM VANET 2004. 
[17]. J. Zhao and G. Cao. “VADD: Vehicle-Assisted Data 
Delivery in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks”, InfoCom 2006. 
[18]. Jiayu Gong, Cheng-Zhong Xu and James Holle. “Predictive 
Directional 
Greedy 
Routing 
in Vehicular 
Ad 
hoc 
Networks”, (ICDCSW’ 07). 
[19]. F. Granelli, G. Boato, and D. Kliazovich. Mora: a movement-
based routing algorithm for vehicle ad hoc networks. In IEEE 
Workshop on Automotive Networking and Applications 
(AutoNet 2006), San Francisco, U.S.A., Dec.2006. 
[20]. The Network Simulator: ns2, http: //www.isi.edu/nsnam /ns/." 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 3, January 2010  
  
46 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
K.Prasanth received the B.E degree in 
Computer 
Science 
from 
K.S. 
Rangasamy College of Technology, 
Tiruchengode in 2005, M.Tech in 
Computer 
Science 
from 
SRM 
University, Chennai in 2007, MBA 
(System) in Periyar University, Salem in 2007. He worked 
as Project Engineer in Wipro Technologies, Bangalore 
from (2007-2008). He is currently working as lecturer in 
Department of Information Technology, K.S.Rangasamy 
College of Technology. His Current research interest 
includes Mobile Computing, Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 
and Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks. 
 
Dr.K.Duraiswamy     received the B.E., 
M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees, from the 
University 
of 
Madras 
and 
Anna 
University in 1965, 1968 and 1987 
respectively. He worked as a Lecturer in 
the 
Department 
of 
Electrical 
Engineering in Government College of Engineering, 
Salem from 1968, as an Assistant professor in Government 
College of Technology, Coimbatore from 1983 and as the 
Principal at K.S.Rangasamy College of Technology from 
1995. He is currently working as a Dean in the Department 
of Computer Science and Engineering at K.S.Rangasamy 
College of Technology (Autonomous Institution).His 
research interest includes Mobile Computing, Soft 
Computing, Computer Architecture and Data Mining. He 
is a senior member of ISTE, IEEE and CSI. 
 
K. Jayasudha received the B.Sc degree in 
2002, MCA degree in 2005, M.E degree 
in Computer Science in 2007, from 
K.S.Rangasamy College Of Technology, 
Thiruchengodu. She is currently working 
as Lecturer in Department Of Computer 
Applications, 
K.S.R.College 
Of 
Engineering, 
Thiruchengodu. Her current research interest includes Data 
Mining, Vehicular Networks. 
 
Dr.C.Chandrasekar received the B.Sc 
degree 
and 
M.C.A 
degree. 
He 
completed PhD in periyar university 
Salem at 2006. He worked as Head of 
the 
Department, 
Department 
Of 
Computer 
Applications 
at 
K.S.R.College of Engineering from 2007. He is currently 
working as Reader in the Department of Computer Science 
at Periyar University, Salem. His research interest includes 
Mobile computing, Networks, Image processing, Data 
mining. He is a senior member of ISTE, CSI.