International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
15 
HYBRIST Mobility Model - A Novel Hybrid Mobility Model 
for VANET Simulations 
Wiseborn Manfe Danquah 
Dept. of Computer Engineering 
 Istanbul Technical University 
Istanbul-Turkey 
D. Turgay Altilar 
Dept. of Computer Engineering 
Istanbul Technical University 
Istanbul-Turkey 
ABSTRACT 
Simulations play a vital role in implementing, testing and 
validating proposed algorithms and protocols in VANET. 
Mobility model, defined as the movement pattern of vehicles, 
is one of the main factors that contribute towards the efficient 
implementation of VANET algorithms and protocols. Using 
near reality mobility models ensure that accurate results are 
obtained from simulations. 
Mobility models that have been proposed and used to 
implement and test VANET protocols and algorithms are 
either the urban mobility model or highway mobility model.  
Algorithms and protocols implemented using urban or 
highway mobility models may not produce accurate results in 
hybrid mobility models without enhancement due to the vast 
differences in mobility patterns. It is on this score the Hybrist, 
a novel hybrid mobility model is proposed.  
The realistic mobility pattern trace file of the proposed 
Hybrist hybrid mobility model can be imported to VANET 
simulators such as Veins and network simulators such as ns2 
and Qualnet to simulate VANET algorithms and protocols. 
General Terms 
Vehicular Communications Network (VANET), Mobility 
Modeling.  
Keywords 
VANET, mobility models, Urban Mobility Model, Highway 
Mobility Model, Hybrid Mobility Model, Istanbul BRT. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Vehicular Ad-hoc networks (VANET), the communication 
between vehicles and road side units (RSU) has attracted a lot 
of interest from the research community due to both the 
opportunity and challenges it presents. 
From the late 90’s, after the US Federal Communications 
Commission allotted the 75MHz of spectrum at 5.9GHz (from 
5.850 to 5.925GHz) of the Dedicated Short Range 
Communications (DSRC)[1] for vehicle-to-vehicle and 
vehicle-to-infrastructure communications, a lot of research 
groups and projects have sprung up across universities and 
research institutions in America, Europe and Asia. 
One of the main challenges in the full deployment of VANET 
is the testing of proposed protocols, standards and algorithms. 
Due to the unique characteristics of VANET such as 
extremely high speed of nodes, testing of protocols and 
standards using existing general network simulators may not 
produce accurate results. 
Using real world test-beds are also extremely expensive and 
resource demanding. The best way for testing and evaluating 
algorithms and protocols therefore is by enhancing existing 
network simulations by incorporating realistic mobility 
models.  
The high mobility of nodes in VANET makes mobility model 
selection one of the most important parameters when 
evaluating any protocol [2]. Mobility models determine the 
location of nodes in the topology at any given instant, which 
strongly affects network connectivity and throughput [3]. For 
results of simulations in VANET to be accurate, the mobility 
model should therefore be realistic.  
Also results from simulations show that protocol performance 
may vary drastically across mobility models and performance 
rankings of protocols may vary with the mobility models used 
[4]. 
In VANET, the movement pattern of nodes or mobility model 
has been classified as urban mobility model and highway 
mobility model.  
Most existing mobility models developed by the researchers 
deal with the vehicular movement within a city area [8].  The 
urban or city mobility model is characterized mostly by heavy 
node density (traffic) with nodes having averagely slow speed 
and a lot of intersections along roads. Urban mobility models 
have a lot of road side units (RSU) which can also be used in 
routing of communication data.  
Different urban mobility models have been developed for 
VANET simulations. Most of these urban mobility models 
mainly deal with node movements at road intersections. They 
include the Random Way Point (RWM) model, Manhattan 
mobility mode, Rice University Model (RUM), Stop Sign 
(SSM), and Probabilistic Traffic Sign (PTSM), Traffic Light 
(TLM). 
In the Random Waypoint Mobility model (RWM) [5] nodes 
are initially distributed randomly in the network. The velocity 
of the nodes is uniformly distributed with the minimum 
velocity of 0m/s. Nodes at initial position randomly selects 
final destination and moves towards in a given time. Upon 
reaching the destination the nodes wait for a period of time 
called the pause time. When the pause time expire the nodes 
selects a new random position, with random velocity and 
moves towards it. The movement of nodes continues using the 
procedure till the simulation ends.  
There are a lot of derivatives of the random waypoint mode. 
Movement pattern of a mobile node using the Random 
Waypoint Mobility Model is similar to the Random Walk 
Mobility Model if pause time is zero and [minspeed, 
maxspeed] = [speedmin, speedmax] as can be seen in [4].  
The Random Waypoint is the most used mobility model for 
VANET simulations     
The Manhattan Mobility Model [6] uses grid road topology 
with equal-length square blocks within each grid. Vehicular 
nodes move in horizontal or vertical direction. At 
intersections of grids vehicles a probabilistic approach is 
adopted to determine the direction vehicles can move. The 
probability of nodes turning right or left is 0.25 whiles 
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
16 
moving straight is 0.5.  The city mobility model is a derivative 
of the Manhattan mobility model which also uses grids but 
movements at intersections is not based on a probabilistic 
approach.  
The Stop Sign Model (SSM) [3] is an urban mobility model 
that uses stop signs as the traffic control mechanism at 
intersections. Every intersection of a street has a stop sign. 
Vehicles moving towards intersections stop at a signal for a 
specific time. The motion of vehicles is constrained by those 
in front. Therefore vehicular nodes cannot overtake nodes 
ahead of them unless it is a multi-lane street. Waiting of 
vehicular nodes at a stop sign create queues at intersections. 
The SSM may not be realistic as all intersections of streets 
cannot be equipped with stop signs as proposed.  
The Probabilistic Traffic sign Model (PTSM) [3] is an 
improvement on the SSM. In the PTSM the stop signal in 
SSM is replaced by traffic signal at intersections. Vehicles 
stop at red traffic signals and move through intersections at 
green signals. 
In modeling the PTSM a probabilistic scheme is used to 
approximate the operations of the traffic signals. Vehicular 
nodes at intersections with an empty queue, stop at the signal 
with a probability p and crosses the signal with a probability 
(1 − p). When nodes decide to wait, the amount of wait time is 
randomly chosen between 0 and w seconds. The PTSM is 
more realistic than the SSM as it models the behavior of 
traffic lights and also prevents excessive wait times at 
intersections. 
The Traffic Light Model [3] is the most realistic intersection 
mobility model. It avoids the heavy approximative approach 
of the PTSM and SSM by allowing the coordination of 
vehicles at intersections. Vehicles in a single-pair opposing 
traffic move through intersection at a green traffic light signal 
whiles the other pairs stop at a red signal. The free turn rule is 
applied for vehicles that need to turn at intersections.  
In highway mobility model, nodes have extremely high speed 
and there exist little or no road traffic as well as road side 
units (RSUs). Highway Mobility Models (HWM) for VANET 
has not been fully explored; researchers who propose 
algorithms using highway mobility models do not explicitly 
state the details of the mobility patterns used for their 
simulations. [7][8]. One of the main research concerns in 
VANET is to find a model for highway mobility outside the 
city [10].  
In view of this and in order to evaluate the proposed Hybrist 
hybrid mobility model, a simple Highway Mobility Model 
(HWM) was modeled using a real road map and road 
conditions of a simple highway in Istanbul. 
2. MOTIVATION 
Despite the different mobility models that have been 
developed for VANET simulations there are still unique 
mobility pattern that have not been modeled. Most mobility 
models proposed for VANET simulations may not suite the 
road conditions in all countries. Also due to the fact that 
protocol performance may vary drastically across mobility 
models and performance rankings of protocols may vary with 
the mobility models used [4], other mobility patterns should 
be explored to obtain realistic results in VANET simulations.  
One of the reasons for proposing a novel Hybrid Mobility 
Model (HMM) is that, in many practical scenarios, multiple-
models may exist within the same road network, due to the 
heterogeneity of nodes and users [9]. Hybrid mobility models, 
where a road exhibits both urban mobility pattern and 
highway mobility pattern at all instance of a road have not 
been studied. 
This mobility pattern mostly exist in road architectures where 
there exist a dedicated Bus Rapid Transit system with a 
dedicated or restricted lane reserved for high speed buses 
surrounded by adjacent low speed heavy traffic lanes or roads.  
The dedicated road have less traffic and extremely high  speed 
nodes that are similar to highway mobility pattern while other 
lanes of the road have heavily dense traffic with slow nodes- 
urban mobility pattern. The picture taken in Istanbul covering 
multiple lanes including Metrobus lanes (located in the 
middle) shown in Figure 1 indicates the need of a  Hybrid 
Mobility model for vehicular communication. 
 
Figure. 1: Sample of image exhibiting hybrid mobility 
pattern 
A Hybrid Mobility Model can be designed considering a) the 
middle lanes reserved for high speed nodes that always 
experience little or no traffic and b)the other multiple 
unrestricted lanes that experience heavy traffic with various 
slower speed nodes.  
A lot of major important Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) [16] roads 
in some of the cities of Asia, Europe and the South America 
have such roads with the characteristics of the hybrid mobility 
pattern [17] The Istanbul Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system, 
the first intercontinental bus rapid system [7] and other Bus 
Rapid Transit systems such as the TransMilenio (BRT system 
in 
Colombia)[26], 
and 
the 
TransJakarta 
in 
Jakata, 
Indonesia[25], have a lot of socio-economic importance.  
The Transjakarta (TJ) records about 400 thousand passengers 
per day and it is expected to rise to about 800 thousand 
passengers per day by the year 2014 [18]. Despite its 
importance, a lot of road accidents and deaths occur on these 
roads. From January to July 2010 there were 237 accidents 
involving TransJakarta buses, resulting in 57 injuries and 
eight deaths [17].  Due to the importance as wells as the large 
number of accidents that occur on these BRTs, effective and 
efficient protocols and standards must be developed to suit 
these Hybrid Mobility Models (HMM) before the full 
deployment of VANET. 
To design and propose algorithms and protocols for a 
vehicular traffic that includes BRT(s) a novel HMM must be 
designed and incorporated in VANET and network 
simulators. 
In this paper, a novel HMM is proposed utilizing the Istanbul 
BRT system. This exhibits both properties of highway 
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
17 
mobility and urban mobility at almost all instances of the 
road.  
 
Figure. 2: The TransMilenio (BRT system in Colombia) 
[26] 
3. RELATED WORK 
Even though a lot of work has been carried out in MANET 
mobility modeling, VANET has not received much needed 
attention. One of the reasons can be due to the assertion by 
[12] that the study of realistic vehicular mobility models and 
their deployment is a challenging task.  
Despite the fact that no similar work on modeling a hybrid 
mobility model (a combination of Urban and Highway 
mobility Models)  for VANET has been proposed, some 
works have been carried out with the approach used in his 
paper, that is, the  use of real world road map to design 
mobility models for VANET simulations. 
In [3] the authors used real street maps extracted from the US 
censor bureau TIGER database [13] to model their proposed 
urban mobility models (Stop Sign (SSM), and Probabilistic 
Traffic Sign (PTSM), Traffic Light (TLM).) explained in the 
introduction section. Nidhi et al [14] used real world map 
extract from Google Earth and other GIS tools to generate 
mobility model to evaluate the performance of VANET in 
realistic environments.  
The Street Random Way point (STRAW) [15] mobility 
model, was also proposed using real map data. The STRAW 
mobility model provides a functionality that simplifies traffic 
congestion by controlling vehicular mobility. It is however 
considered not realistic.  
The term Hybrid Mobility has been used by a number  authors 
to represent mobility models in VANET but in all these 
instances they combined two or more urban mobility models. 
Rajini et al [10] proposed hybrid mobility for clustering in 
VANET, but the mobility model was just the combination of 
two urban mobility models, the random waypoint and group 
mobility model.  
4. THE ISTANBUL BRT SYSTEM 
The Istanbul BRT system, a bus rapid transit (BRT) system is 
about 42km long and runs across the Istanbul strait which 
divides the continent of Asia and Europe. This makes the 
Istanbul BRT the first continental bus rapid transit [7]. 
The BRT system is a hybrid between a metro train and a 
metro bus system.  It consists of a fully restricted dedicated 
right-of –way one lane (referred to as metro bus lane) for high 
speed metro buses, security patrol vehicles, ambulances and 
other emergency vehicles. This high speed restricted 
commercial metro bus lane has currently 33 bus stop stations 
with no intersections (closed bus transit system) and it is still 
growing. It carries approximately one million passengers in a 
day [3].  
The restricted lane (metrobus lane) is surrounded by two 
unrestricted opposite one-way direction three lane roads with 
less speed and  heavy traffic vehicular nodes called main 
roads. There may other roads which flows in parallel to 
previously mentioned two with less speed and relatively low 
traffic which is called side roads (‘yanyol’ in Turkish). Since 
side roads appear in parallel with just some sections the main 
roads, focus was made on only the relation between Metrobus 
lane and main roads within the context of this paper.   
The mobility pattern spans between the towns of Avcılar, 
Zincirlikuyu and the end of the Bosporus Bridge and 
Söğütlüçeşme.  
The nature of the mobility pattern of the Istanbul BRT system 
presents a unique vehicular mobility model for the 
development and implementation of new VANET algorithms. 
Already designed algorithms may need further enhancement 
or 
modification 
to 
achieve 
better 
results 
before 
implementation on the Istanbul BRT and other BRTs.  
5. MODELLING AND SIMULATIONS 
In evaluating the difference in terms of the performance of the 
proposed   Hybrid Mobility Model (HMM), Urban Mobility 
Model (UMM) and Highway mobility (HWM), were 
compared using the results obtained from simulations.  
To generate realistic mobility models for simulations, the 
mobility pattern of a section (block) of the Istanbul BRT was 
observed. Inserted below is an image of a section of the 
Istanbul BRT system showing the metrobus lane and main 
roads. 
 
Figure. 3: A section of the Istanbul BRT system showing 
the main roads and BRT [4] 
The section (block) was extracted from the online map, 
OpenStreetmap tool. The extracted mobility pattern was then 
edited using the map editing tools Java OpenStreet map 
editor, JOSM [22] and e-World [23].  
Roads were modeled by connected line segments (edges). 
Each edge has attributes such as road identifier, the speed 
limit of lanes, number of lanes and priority of lanes. The 
modeled road network was imported to SUMO and the 
required traffic was generated. The Figure 4  shows a section 
of the road network of the Istanbul BRT exported from e-
World into SUMO 
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
18 
 
Figure. 4: Istanbul BRT road network model in SUMO 
The DROUTER tool based on the Dijkstra’s algorithm [24] is 
used to compute the routes of nodes. The Car-following 
model [11] implementation in SUMO, is employed in 
modeling the vehicular traffic. The map file (.net.xml) and 
corresponding route files (.rou.xml) were used to generate 
sumo trace files (.sumo.tr) which is then imported to MOVE 
and converted to ns2 format for network analysis.  
The sumo.tr file can also be visualized in sumo-gui as shown 
in Figure 5.For the Urban Mobility the Stop Sig mobility 
model (SSMM) and traffic light model were incorporated 
along the section on the streets.  
The number of stop stations for the metrobus lane, main road 
and the highway mobility models are shown in table 1 below. 
Other parameters such as the speed limit of lanes, the number 
of lanes used in modeling of the various mobility models in 
SUMO are also presented. The parameters were obtained 
from the highway authority in Istanbul Turkey which 
corresponds to the values obtained from the OpenStreet map. 
Table 1: Parameters used in modeling 
Road type 
No. 
lanes 
Speed 
of lanes 
(m/s) 
No. of stop 
stations 
Metrobus-lane 
1 
33.33 
5 
Main road 
3  
13.89 
10-15 
HWM 
4  
33.3 
0-5 
UMM 
4 
13.89 
10-20 
 
Figure. 5: Screen shot of SUMO simulation. 
6. NETWORK SIMULATIONS 
Using ns-2.35 CBR generation tool with seed value of 2 and 
transmission interval of 0.05micro seconds, varying CBR 
sources were generated for the different mobility models. 
Several instances for each CBR value were run for each 
mobility model. Parameters used for simulations have been 
presented in the Table 2. 
Table 2: Table of simulation parameters 
Parameter 
Value 
Simulation time 
1000 seconds 
Simulation area 
6380m X 1934m 
Mobility Models 
Hybrist Mobility 
Model(HMM), UMM, 
HWM 
Number of Vehicles 
160, 200,250 
Routing Protocol 
AODV 
Transmission Range 
50m,100m,150m,200m 
250m  and 300m 
CBR Sources 
5-20 
Packet size 
512 Bytes 
Routing Protocol 
AODV 
Transmission Range 
50,100,150,200,250m 
Bandwidth 
10 Mbps 
MAC Protocol 
802.11p 
 
The screenshot of simulation in ns-2 utilizing nam trace file is 
shown in Figure.6. The node movement and communication 
among of vehicular on all the lanes of the road have been 
captured in this figure. 
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
19 
Figure. 6: Screenshot of simulation in ns-2 nam interface 
of HMM simulation 
7. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS 
The results of performance metrics that were compared to 
determine the uniqueness of the Hybrist, hybrid mobility 
model (HMM) in relation to the highway mobility model 
(HWM) and urban mobility model (UMM) proposed are 
discussed in details in this section. 
7.1. 
Packet Delivery Fraction (PDF) 
Packet delivery ration (PDF), is the ratio of the number of 
successfully delivered data packets to all destination nodes 
and the number of data packet generated by all source nodes. 
The PDF values from the three mobility models are used to 
determine which mobility model has the highest percentage of 
packets reaching their intended destination during the entire 
duration of the simulation.  It can be observed from Figure 7 
that the values of the HMM and UMM are higher than HWM. 
This could be due to the relatively higher node density, 
relatively lower speed of nodes thereby forming more stable 
link connections among nodes as compared to the HWM. 
Figure. 7: PDF vs. CBR sources 
7.2.End-End delay vs. CBR sources 
The End-to-end delay can be defined as the time taken for a 
packet to be transmitted across a network from source to 
destination. 
It is observed that the end to end values rise as the CBR 
sources increases as seen in the Figure 8. In the VANET 
environment as the CBR sources increase the number of 
packets contending for the same wireless channel increases. 
This leads to a lot of packet collision within the channel. 
Large packet drop being the consequences of collision within 
the channel leads to large end to end delay values. The higher 
values and large rise in value for the UMM could attributed to 
the larger number of nodes than that of the HWM. 
Figure. 8: End-to-end delay vs. CBR sources 
7.3.Packet Loss  
The packet lost value is the total number of packets dropped 
during simulation. The packet loss is mainly due to the 
instability nature of links between nodes. The Highway 
mobility (HWM) has nodes which are sparsely apart. This 
accounts for the large values of packet loss. 
In Figure 9, Packet Loss vs. CBR sources HMM has slightly 
better performance than the UMM this can be attributed to the 
presence of extremely high nodes on the fast speed lane do 
not exist in the UMM. These nodes present extra faster link 
for data transfer when other links within the network break 
down. It ensures the fast transmission of data when already 
established links within the main road break down. 
Figure.9: Packet Loss vs. CBR sources 
7.4.Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Transmission 
Range 
The effect of varying transmission range on the packet 
delivery ration is a good measure to determine how unique 
mobility models are.  
From the graph of packet delivery ratio vs. varying 
transmission range shown in Figure 10, it could be observed 
that the packet delivery ratio decreases when the transmission 
range of nodes is increased. The HWM experiences huge 
6
10
14
18
15
25
35
45
55
 CBR  Values
Packet Delivery Fraction
 
 
HMM
UMM
HWM
6
10
14
18
100
300
500
700
900
 CBR  Values
End to End Delay(sec)
 
 
HMM
UMM
HWM
6
10
14
18
4000
8000
12000
16000
CBR  Values
Packet loss 
 
 
HMM
UMM
HWM
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
20 
packet loss even though the transmission range is increased 
because the signal strength of the nodes decreases with 
increasing transmission range. The HMM however performs 
better than the UMM as the mobility pattern remains 
relatively stable during peak and off-peak hours. The UMM 
mobility pattern may change drastically during off-peak 
hours. 
Figure 10: Packet Delivery Ratio vs. Transmission range 
8. CONCLUSION 
This paper presents a proposed Hybrid Mobility Model 
(HMM), the Hybrist for VANET simulations. Analysis of 
simulation results shows that, the Hybrid Mobility varies from 
both the Urban Mobility and simple Highway Mobility 
(HWM) in terms of performance metrics shown.  
The use of real data from OpenStreet map makes the Hybrist 
mobility model more realistic for the design testing of 
VANET protocols before implementation. The Hybrist 
(HMM) presents the basis for further studies into the mobility 
models that are similar to both the Urban Mobility Model and 
Simple Hıghway Mobility Models in terms of speed of nodes 
and the node densıty ın VANET environments. 
Future works would implement more effıcıent routıng 
protocols as well as examine the performance of already 
exısting routıng protocols (AODV, DSDV, DSR etc.) and 
other protocols in the Hybrid Mobility Model.  
Evaluation of the performance of Intelligent lane reservation 
systems: Nishkam R. et al (2007) [28], proposed an intelligent 
lane reservation system for highways. In their position paper, 
they proposed a model where drivers on highways are allowed 
to reserve a slot on a reserved high-priority lane. The high-
priority lane has higher speed limit and less traffic than the 
other lanes. During the peak hours, where the highway may 
experience heavy traffic, the high-priority lane is only used by 
drivers who have made earlier reservation. Their proposed 
model, considered as a traffic congestion control scheme can 
be evaluated using the proposed HYBRIST- Mobility Model 
as they have the same characteristics.  
Further studıes would also be undertaken to determıne level of 
details that should be considered for a near to realistic 
sımulatıon of the proposed Hybrid Mobility Model. Mobility 
trace files of the Hybrid Mobility Model (HMM) May be 
downloaded from www.bb.itu.edu.tr. 
9. REFERENCES 
[1] US Department of Transportation, Standard Specification 
for Telecommunications and Information Exchange 
Between Roadside and Vehicle Systems – 5GHZ Band 
Dedicated 
Short 
range 
Communications 
(DSRC) 
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer 
(PHY) Specifications. ASTM E2213-03, August 2003. 
[2] Djamel Djenouri, Elmalik Nekka, VANET’s Mobility 
and Overtaking: An Overview, International Conference 
on Information and Communication Technologies, 2008, 
pp1-6  
[3] A. Mahajan, N. Potnis, K. Gopalan, and A.-I. A. 
Wang,“Urban mobility models for VANETs,” in in Proc. 
of 2nd Workshop on Next GenerationWireless Networks, 
2006.  
[4] F.Bai, N. Sadagopan, and A. Helmy. The IMPORTANT 
framework for analyzing the impact of mobility on 
performance of routing protocols for adhoc networks. 
AdHoc Networks Journal, 1:383–403, Nov 2003. 
[5] T. Camp, J. Boleng, and V. Davies, A Survey of 
Mobility Models for Ad Hoc Network Research, in 
Wireless 
Communication 
and 
Mobile 
Computing 
(WCMC): Special issue on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking: 
Research, Trends and Applications, vol. 2, no. 5, pp. 
483-502, 2002. 
[6] D.B. Johnson, D. Maltz, and J. Broch. The Dynamic 
Source Routing Protocol for Multihop Wireless Ad Hoc 
Networks, chapter 5, pages 139–172. Addison-Wesley, 
2001. 
[7] Marco Fiore,” Mobility Models in Inter-Vehicle 
Communications 
Literature”, 
Technical 
Report, 
November 2006. 
[8] B. Ramakrishnan, R.S. Rajesh,” CBVANET: A Cluster 
Based Vehicular Ad-hoc Network Model for Simple 
Highway Communication”, Int. J. Advanced Networking 
and Application Dec-2010, Volume: 02, Issue:04, 
page(s) : 755- 761(2011). 
[9] Wenjing Wang Fei Xie Chatterjee, M. “Small-Scale and 
Large-Scale Routing in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks”, 
Vehicular Technology, IEEE Transactions Journal, Nov. 
2009 Volume: 58, Issue: 9 page(s): 5200 – 5213. 
[10] D. Rajini Girinath, S. Selvan, “A Novel Cluster based 
Routing Algorithm for Hybrid Mobility Model in 
VANET” International Journal of Computer Applications 
2010 (0975 - 8887), Volume 1 – No. 15. 
[11] Chen, R. Wen-Long Jin Regan, A., “Broadcasting safety 
information 
in 
vehicular 
networks: 
issues 
and 
approaches” Network, IEEE, Jan.-Feb. 2010 Volume:24 
,Issue:1page(s): 20 – 25 
[12] S. Panwai, H. Dia, “Comparative evaluation of 
microscopic car-following behavior”, IEEE Transactions 
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 6 (2005), 
Issue 3 pp. 314–325, 2005. 
[13] Sichitiu 
M., 
Kihl 
M.,(2008) 
“Inter-vehicle 
communication 
systems: 
a 
survey”, 
IEEE 
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, v. 10, n. pp. 88-
105. 
[14] TIGER. http://www.census.gov/geo/www/tiger/. 
[15] The ns-2. http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/. 
[16] David R.C., Fabi´an E. B. “An integrated mobility and 
traffic model for vehicular wireless networks”,        In: 
50
150
250
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
 Transmission Range 
Packet Delivery Ratio
 
 
HMM
UMM
HWM
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887)  
Volume 86 – No 14, January 2014 
21 
2nd  ACM International Workshop on Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks (VANET), Cologne, Germany, 2005. 
[17] http://www.mta.info/mta/planning/sbs/whatis.htm 
[18] http://www.nbrti.org/database.html 
[19] PMTSimulation,“http://www.paramicsonline.com/.” 
[20] F. K. Karnadi, Z. H. Mo, and K. c. Lan, “Rapid 
generation of realistic mobility models for vanet,” in 
IEEE WCNC, 2007, pp. 2506–2511.  
[21] SUMO< “http://sumo.sourceforge.net/.”> 
[22] OpenStreet <http://www.openstreetmap.org/> 
[23] OpenStreet map editor : <http://josm.openstreetmap.de/ 
[24] http://eworld.sourceforge.net/ 
[25] Sniedovich, "Dijkstra’s algorithm revisited: the dynamic 
programming connexion" (PDF). Journal of Control and 
Cybernetics 
35 
(3): 
599–620. 
M. 
(2006).http://matwbn.icm.edu.pl/ksiazki/cc/cc35/cc3536.
pdf 
[26] http://www.mediaindonesia.com/read/2012/01/03/28890
7/37/5/Penumpang-Trans-Jakarta-2011-Naik-32 
[27] http://www.gobrt.org/Transmilenio.html 
[28] Nishkam, R., Stephen, S., Liviu, I. (2007). Lane 
reservation for highways, In ITSC’07: Proceedings of the 
10th International IEEE Conference on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, Prague, Czech 
 
IJCATM : www.ijcaonline.org