Improving VANET Protocols via Network Science 
Romeu Monteiro1,2, Susana Sargento1 
1Instituto de Telecomunicações - Universidade de Aveiro 
Aveiro, Portugal 
{romeumonteiro7, susana}@ua.pt 
 
 
Wantanee Viriyasitavat2, Ozan K. Tonguz2 
2ECE Department - Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA 
{wviriyas, tonguz}@ece.cmu.edu 
Abstract— Developing routing protocols for Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks (VANETs) is a significant challenge in these large, self-
organized and distributed networks. We address this challenge 
by studying VANETs from a network science perspective to 
develop solutions that act locally but influence the network 
performance globally. More specifically, we look at snapshots 
from highway and urban VANETs of different sizes and vehicle 
densities, and study parameters such as the node degree 
distribution, the clustering coefficient and the average shortest 
path length, in order to better understand the networks' 
structure and compare it to structures commonly found in large 
real world networks such as small-world and scale-free networks. 
We then show how to use this information to improve existing 
VANET protocols. As an illustrative example, it is shown that, by 
adding new mechanisms that make use of this information, the 
overhead of the urban vehicular broadcasting (UV-CAST) 
protocol can be reduced substantially with no significant 
performance degradation. 
Keywords- VANET; wireless networks; network science; 
distributed networks; broadcast storm; clustering coefficient; path 
length; connectivity; self-organized networks; distributed networks. 
I. 
 INTRODUCTION 
Developing suitable protocols for message dissemination in 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANETs) is a challenging 
problem. Recent research on large scale self-organized 
distributed networks in nature (e.g., self-organizing biological 
networks) and social networks has shed new light on how these 
networks communicate in efficient ways in addition to paving 
the way for  the development of a new perspective - commonly 
known as network science - for the study of these networks. 
Some of the most relevant studies include the celebrated work 
of Watts & Strotgatz [1] on small-world networks, and the well 
known work of Albert & Barabási [2] exploring scale-free 
networks. Kleinberg's work [3], building upon these earlier 
works, has shown how the structure of small-world networks 
relates to the optimal routing protocol. 
Our goal in this paper is, by considering snapshots in time 
of urban and highway VANETs, to study the graphs they form 
from a network science perspective, analyzing parameters such 
as the nodes' degree distribution, the clustering coefficient, and 
the average shortest path length. The ultimate goal is to get 
useful information from these parameters to compare these 
networks to small-world and scale-free networks, and to use 
that information to improve the existing communications 
protocols for VANETs. This way, we will have a detailed 
description of the fundamental graph properties of urban and 
highway VANETs. We will show that this information will be 
instrumental for enhancing the performance of network 
protocols in vehicular networks.  
In this paper, we analyze real data on the aforementioned 
parameters as a function of the vehicle density and the network 
area or length. This allows integration of local information 
such as the degree distribution of the nodes, and global 
information such as vehicle density and corresponding 
connectivity. Consequently, one can design adaptive protocols 
which work in a distributed way with local information, but 
that influence the performance of the network on a global level. 
We test this approach in the following way: first, we get the 
information regarding the clustering coefficient of urban 
networks and the relationship between node degree and 
connectivity; then, we use this information to improve the 
performance of the recently developed urban vehicular 
broadcast protocol (UV-CAST) [4] in extreme regimes of very 
low or very high vehicle density; finally, we evaluate this 
approach and show that this approach provides a very 
significant reduction on the overhead in the network with no 
performance degradation. We also analyze VANETs from a 
network science perspective and show that urban and highway 
VANETs are not scale-free networks since their node degree 
distributions can be modeled by Gaussian distributions. We  
also show that, even though there seems to be a possibility for a 
small-world 
behavior 
for 
low 
density 
VANETs, 
the 
connectivity is too low to profit from that behavior. 
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 
II introduces the main differences between urban and highway 
VANETs and summarizes the information on the data used to 
emulate real world data. Section III analyzes several network 
science parameters for the two scenarios, accompanied by 
comparisons with theoretical models. Section IV elaborates on 
possible uses for the data and models analyzed in section III 
and applies them to improve the UV-CAST [4] protocol. 
Section V presents concluding remarks and highlights the 
possible areas for future work. 
II. 
URBAN VS HIGHWAY VANETS 
When studying the properties of VANETs one has to 
consider the two main scenarios - urban and highway - and 
how they impact the communication process. The main 
differences include: 1) Dimensionality (D), (i.e., 1D vs. 2D 
topology) has consequences on the number of vehicles within 
1-hop distance, packet routing and vehicle clustering; 2) Signal 
Propagation, which is mostly line-of-sight on highways, but 
can include reflections and shadowing in urban environments; 
3) Traffic patterns, influenced by factors such as the speed of 
the vehicles, the stability of their neighborhoods, and traffic 
congestion. 
This work was funded in part by the Portuguese Foundation for Science 
and Technology under the Carnegie Mellon | Portugal program (grant 
SFRH/BD/51633/2011) 
A. Empirical data 
In this paper we collect and analyze sets of data for both 
urban and highway VANETs in order to analyze the graph 
representation of these networks. These data sets contain the 
positions of the vehicles in different time moments, 
representing real life traffic data. In the case of urban 
VANETs, we use data generated by the Cellular Automata 
model (CA model) presented in [5], which uses a Manhattan 
grid model and emulates real vehicle patterns of movement in 
urban areas. This model includes blocks of size 125 m x 125 
m; we consider that 1-hop communication can be established 
between vehicles at either a line-of-sight distance 250 m or 
non-line-of-sight distance of 140 m. As for highway VANETs, 
we use samples measured by the Berkeley Highway 
Laboratory regarding highway I-80 [6], which provides 
information about the time and speed the vehicles pass through 
certain points of the highway, which we extrapolate assuming 
that the vehicles' speeds are constant. From this data, we look 
at instantaneous snapshots in both urban and highway 
VANETs, and study the underlying graph where nodes are 
vehicles and edges exist between vehicles which can establish 
1-hop communication. Works in [7] and [8] also study the data 
from highway I-80 to address the challenge of routing in sparse 
VANETs. For each scenario, we consider 3 connectivity 
regimes - high, medium and low connectivity - and the 
corresponding vehicle densities (we assume a penetration rate 
of 100%, as well as 100% success rate for the exchanging of 
messages within the communication ranges, as defined before, 
and 0% in all other cases). In the case of urban VANETs, this 
corresponds to inserting more or less vehicles in the CA model, 
while in the case of highway VANETs, it corresponds to 
collecting data from different times of the day.  This 
information is summarized in Table I. 
TABLE I.  
DENSITIES AND RESPECTIVE CONNECTIVITIES FOR URBAN 
AND HIGHWAY SCENARIOS 
Urban (for 4km2 of area) 
Highway (for 25km of length) 
Density 
Connectivity 
Density 
Connectivity 
Time of Day 
10 veh/km2 
~ 2% 
3.9 veh/km 
~ 3% 
01:00 - 03:00 
60 veh/km2 
~ 47% 
26.0 veh/km 
~ 68% 
10:00 - 12:00 
80 veh/km2 
~ 90% 
44.9 veh/km 
~ 98% 
15:00 - 17:00 
 
III. 
NETWORK PROPERTIES 
In this section, we study several parameters of VANETs 
based on a network graph analysis and in specific cases 
compare them with well-known theoretical models on node 
degree distribution, average shortest path length, clustering 
coefficient, connectivity, and number of clusters. In the 
following, we define these concepts: 
1) Degree of a node - the nodes of a network graph are 
connected to each other through edges that represent links of 
communication or other types of relationship between them. 
The number of edges that have a certain node as their start or 
finish node represents the degree of that node.  
2) Average shortest path length - this parameter 
represents the average minimum number of hops between all 
possible pairs of nodes in a network.  
3)  Clustering coefficient - this coefficient quantifies the 
clustering of the community of neighbors of a node or the 
clustering of the network. In the node version, it is defined as 
the average fraction of pairs of nodes connecting to a certain 
node that are also connected to each other; in the network 
version, it represents the probability that two nodes connected 
to a common node are also connected between themselves. 
4) Connectivity - this parameter represents the fraction of 
pairs of nodes in a network which can communicate among 
themselves. This means that there exists at least one multi-hop 
path to connect them. For a single node it is defined as the 
fraction of other nodes in the network this node can 
communicate with. 
We also compare VANETs to small-world and scale-free 
networks, due to the relevant properties of these networks. A 
small-world network is a network where the average shortest 
path length between its nodes is very small compared to the 
total number of nodes in the network. This is mathematically 
defined by having an average shortest path length 𝐿 which 
grows proportionally to the logarithm of the number of nodes 
𝑁 of the network [1]: 
𝐿(𝑁) ∝log  (𝑁)                             (1) 
Examples of different types of small-world networks can be 
found in [9][10]. 
A scale-free network is a special case of a small-world 
network [11], where the structure of the network remains the 
same regardless of the scale of the observation [10]. These 
networks possess many nodes with low degrees and a very 
small number of nodes with large degrees (and which behave 
like hubs). A scale-free network shows a node degree 
distribution that follows a power law (2) at least asymptotically 
[2]: 
𝑃! 𝑘∝  𝑘!!                               (2) 
where 𝑘 is the degree of the node and 𝛾 is a constant parameter 
dependent on the specific distribution.  
A. Node degree distribution 
When studying the properties of a network graph, a node's 
degree is the number of vertices connecting it to other nodes. In 
this paper, we consider these vertices to appear between any 
two vehicles within 1-hop distance. Therefore, for VANETs, 
the node degree distribution represents the probability 
distribution of the number of vehicles within 1-hop distance 
from each vehicle.  
1) Urban VANET 
Figure 1 shows the node degree distribution for urban 
VANETs of different densities in a region of 4km2, as well as 
the Gaussian curves that best fit these distributions.  
 
These fits are parameterized by the values given in Table II 
according to the following formula: 
𝑃𝑘=   𝑎∙𝑒! !!!
!
!
                             (3) 
where 𝑎, 𝑏 and 𝑐 are the constant parameters that define these 
Gaussian distributions. This formula is only valid for ≥0 , in 
contrast with the regular Gaussian distribution. 
TABLE II.  
PARAMETERS OF THE BEST GAUSSIAN FITS FOR THE NODE 
DEGREE DISTRIBUTIONS IN URBAN VANETS 
Density 
a 
b 
c 
R-square 
SSE 
10 veh/km2 
0.5315 
-0.1743 
1.74 
0.9999 
0.00002274 
60 veh/km2 
0.1932 
3.728 
2.924 
0.9941 
0.000755 
80 veh/km2 
0.1627 
5.098 
3.467 
0.9944 
0.0005928 
 
One can see, from Figure 1 and from the values on Table II, 
that the Gaussian curves fit very well with the data from the 
CA model for urban VANETs. One could expect some 
closeness to scale-free networks due to the possibility that 
nodes at intersections could work as major hubs to their long 
ranges of communication in multiple directions. However, 
since the degree distributions do not follow a power law (2), 
the networks are not scale-free. Thus, one cannot use the 
known properties of scale-free networks here, but one can 
explore the Gaussian model for the node degree distribution to 
create improved routing protocols, for example. 
2) Highway VANET 
 
Considering highway VANETs, Figure 2 shows the node 
degree 
distribution 
for 
different 
vehicle 
densities 
(corresponding to the 3 times of day and traffic patterns) in 
highway I-80 in Berkeley [6] for a 20km length, as well as the 
Gaussian curves that best fit these distributions. These fits are 
parameterized by the values given in Table III according to 
(3). Once again, the results yield very good fits for a Gaussian 
model, and show that these VANETs are not scale-free 
networks. As for urban VANETs, we can explore the Gaussian 
model for the node degree distribution. 
 
 
TABLE III.  
PARAMETERS OF THE BEST GAUSSIAN FITS FOR THE NODE 
DEGREE DISTRIBUTIONS IN HIGHWAY VANETS 
Density 
a 
b 
c 
R-square 
SSE 
3.9 veh/km 
0.2902 
1.604 
2.036 
0.9953 
0.0009475 
26.0 veh/km 
0.09851 
12.73 
5.591 
0.9904 
0.000561 
44.9 veh/km 
0.03411 
45.84 
15.68 
0.976 
0.0003188 
 
B. Average Shortest Path Length 
Another relevant metric is the average shortest path length, 
which we measure from the real data and fit to known curves.  
 
1) Urban VANET 
We used the data from the Cellular Automata (CA) model 
and plotted the average shortest path length as a function of 
the network area, since this area is proportional to the number 
of nodes in the network for each density. These fits are 
parameterized according to (4) with the values of Table IV. 
We observe that the power fitness curve fits well for the 
three types of densities, as shown in Fig 3. Furthermore, for 
the networks with medium and large densities of nodes, we 
observe in Table IV that the power exponents (variable  'b') 
are close to 0.5, which is the exponent of the square root. This 
shows that, when there is high connectivity, the average 
shortest path length tends to increase almost proportionally to 
the radius or to the side of the network. 
 
 
Figure 1. Node degree distributions of urban VANETs with different 
vehicle densities and their respective Gaussian fits.
2
6
10
14
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
k
P(k)
Degree distribution in Urban VANET
 
 
dens = 10vh/km2
dens = 60vh/km2
dens = 80vh/km2
fit - 10vh/km2
fit - 60vh/km2
fit - 80vh/km2
 
Figure 2. Node degree distributions of highway VANETs with different 
vehicle densities and their respective Gaussian fits. 
10
30
50
70
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
k
P(k)
Degree distribution in highway VANET
 
 
dens = 3.9 vh/km
dens = 26.0 vh/km
dens = 44.9 vh/km
fit - 3.9 vh/km
fit - 26.0 vh/km
fit - 44.9 vh/km
 
Figure 3. Average shortest path lengths as functions of the network area 
and vehicle density in an urban scenario, and best fit using the power law 
2
6
10
14
0
10
20
Area (km2)
L - Average Shortest Path
Power fitness curve L = f(Area) = a*Areab+c
 
 
dens = 10 vh/km2
dens = 60 vh/km2
dens = 80 vh/km2
fit - 10 vh/km2
fit - 60 vh/km2
fit - 80 vh/km2
𝐿Area =   𝑎∙Area! + 𝑐                     (4) 
TABLE IV.  
PARAMETERS OF THE BEST POWER FITS FOR THE AVERAGE 
SHORTEST PATH LENGTHS IN URBAN VANETS 
Density 
a 
b 
c 
R-square 
SSE 
10 veh/km2 
-0.4101 
-0.3173 
1.557 
0.9753 
0.001096 
60 veh/km2 
3.381 
0.6605 
1.523 
0.9963 
0.9074 
80 veh/km2 
6.505 
0.462 
-1.044 
0.9991 
0.208 
 
 
Using the logarithmic function (5) we get the curves in 
Figure 4. Observe that there are significant mismatches for 
medium and high density of nodes; however, it is a very good 
fit when the density is low. This is also shown in Table V. 
This is probably due to the creation of more clusters when the 
area of the network increases, where these clusters grow 
slowly on average since there is a low density of nodes. Since 
for medium and high densities the average shortest path length 
does not grow with the logarithm of the number of vehicles 
(which is proportional do the area of the network), these 
networks are not small-world networks. Lower density urban 
VANETs have an average shortest path length that does grow 
approximately with this logarithm, but they have a very low 
connectivity. 
𝐿Area =   𝑎∙log  (Area) + 𝑐                  (5) 
TABLE V.  
PARAMETERS OF THE BEST LOGARITHMIC FITS FOR THE 
AVERAGE SHORTEST PATH LENGTHS IN URBAN VANETS 
Density 
a 
c 
R-square 
SSE 
10 veh/km2 
0.08554 
1.162 
0.9594 
0.001801 
60 veh/km2 
6.312 
2.889 
0.9359 
15.89 
80 veh/km2 
6.073 
4.052 
0.9664 
7.472 
 
2) Highway VANET 
 
For highway VANETs, a similar study is performed. The 
obtained results in Table VI for a fit in expression (4) are 
shown in Figure 5. We observe that the plot showing the 
power law fits relatively well for the three types of densities, 
although there is no clear trend for the higher densities, as 
Figure 5 and Table VI show. The fit using the logarithmic 
funcion (5) also yields poor results. 
 
TABLE VI.  
PARAMETERS OF THE BEST POWER FITS FOR THE AVERAGE 
SHORTEST PATH LENGTHS IN HIGHWAY VANETS 
Density 
a 
b 
c 
R-square 
SSE 
3.9 veh/km 
-10.55 
-2.351 
1.68 
0.8918 
0.005471 
26.0 veh/km 
0.008811 
1.493 
4.792 
0.8693 
0.3402 
44.9 veh/km 
-16.8 
-1.184 
4.873   
0.9735 
0.1044 
 
C. Clustering Coefficient 
1) Urban VANET 
 
In order to estimate the clustering coefficient of urban 
VANET's, let us consider a vehicle in an open area which is 
connected with other vehicles positioned less than 𝑟 meters 
away. Assume that this area is infinite and therefore there is 
no border effect. The clustering coefficient is the probability 
that 2 vehicles connected to a common vehicle are also 
connected among themselves: if 2 vehicles are less than 𝑟 
meters away from a common vehicle, clustering coefficient is 
the probability that these vehicles are also less than 𝑟 meters 
away from each other. Assuming the vehicles can be 
anywhere in the area within 𝑟 meters of any vehicle with equal 
probability, we can easily compute the probabilistic 
distribution of the distance to the common vehicle. The 
probability of the 2 vehicles being connected is given by the 
average fraction of the area which is common to the 
communication range of one of the vehicles and the common 
vehicle. This probability is the same as the network clustering 
coefficient 𝐶 and is given by: 
𝐶=
!!
!! ∙
!
!
  
!!! !"#!!
!
!! !  !
! !!!!!!  
!!!
  𝑑𝑥   = 0.5865      (6) 
Comparing the data from the CA model (in Figure 6) with 
the theoretical values, we observe that that they are similar, as 
the clustering coefficient is around 0.5 (with 0.5865 being the 
theoretical value) with no dependence on the network area. For 
lower densities there seems to be a lower clustering coefficient 
than for higher densities. These deviations from the theoretical 
 
Figure 4. Average shortest path lengths as a function of the network area 
and vehicle density in an urban scenario, and best logarithmic fits. 
2
6
10
14
0
10
20
Area (km2)
L - Average Shortest Path
Power log curve L = f(Area) = a*log(Area)+c
 
 
dens = 10 vh/km2
dens = 60 vh/km2
dens = 80 vh/km2
fit - 10 vh/km2
fit - 60 vh/km2
fit - 80 vh/km2
 
Figure 5. Average shortest path lengths as a function of the highway 
length and vehicle density in a highway scenario, and best fit using the 
power law. 
5
15
25
35
0
2
4
6
8
Length (km)
L - Average Shortest Path Length
Power fitness curve L = f(Length) = a*Lengthb+c
 
 
dens = 3.9 vh/km
dens = 26.0 vh/km
dens = 44.9 vh/km
fit - 3.9 vh/km
fit - 26.0 vh/km
fit - 44.9 vh/km
value are due to the border effect resulting from the limited 
network area, just as the larger confidence intervals should be 
related to the limited number of vehicles, especially in cases of 
smaller areas and/or lower vehicle densities.  
 
The clustering coefficient provides us with the probability 
that 2 vehicles which are within the communication range of a 
common vehicle are also within the communication range of 
each other. For a value of ~0.5 this means that, if vehicle A has 
received a specific broadcast message from vehicle B (1-hop 
communication), then there is a 50% chance that the vehicles 
within communication range of vehicle A have received the 
same message from vehicle B (considering a 100% success rate 
from the layers supporting the message exchange). Thus, if 
vehicle A would rebroadcast immediately, at least 50% of its 
neighbors would receive a redundant message (they might even 
have already received the same message from a source other 
than vehicles A and B). 
2) Highway VANET 
 
Through similar derivations for a 1D case, we get the 
estimate for the clustering coefficient in highway VANETs: 
 
𝐶=   
!
! ∙
!
!
  
!!!!
!! 𝑑𝑥   = 0.75                       (7) 
 
If we compare the values obtained for the clustering 
coefficient from the I-80 data in Figure 7 and our theoretical 
value of 0.75, which is not dependent on the highway length, 
we see that they match almost exactly in most cases, except for 
the case of the smallest highway length with the highest vehicle 
density, where the clustering for the I-80 data is slightly higher 
than that of our model. 
From the theoretical model we can observe that there is no 
expectable dependency on any parameter if we consider the 
stretch of highway to have infinite length.  
D. Connectivity 
1) Urban VANET 
 
In Figure 8, we observe the connectivity values measured 
from the data generated by the CA model for urban VANETs. 
The largest variation of connectivity occurs between 40 and 80 
vehicles per km2. Through this figure we can roughly observe 
the relation between vehicle density and connectivity for urban 
VANETs. 
2) Highway VANET 
 
The connectivity values obtained from the expanded data 
from highway I-80, as a function of the highway length and 
the vehicle density, are plotted in Figure 9. 
 
An interesting phenomenon can be observed here: for low 
and medium vehicle densities, the connectivity is higher for 
lower highway lengths, while for a high vehicle density, the 
opposite happens and connectivity increases as the highway 
length grows. One should note that this length-related 
difference is very significant, as it can produce a connectivity 
variation of more than 30% when the road length goes from 5 
to 35km. With this data, we can relate vehicle density and 
connectivity, which will be helpful to design optimized 
routing protocols and new VANET protocols. 
 
Figure 6. Clustering coefficient as a function of the network area and 
vehicle density in an urban scenario. 
10
30
50
70
90
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
Clustering Coefficient vs Vehice Density
Density (vh/km2)
C - Clustering Coefficient
 
 
Area = 1km2
Area = 4km2
Area = 9km2
Area = 16km2
 
Figure 7. Clustering coefficient as a function of highway length and 
vehicle density in a highway scenario. 
5
15
25
35
45
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
Clustering Coefficient vs Vehice Density
Density (vh/km)
C - Clustering Coefficient
 
 
Length = 5 km
Length = 15 km
Length = 25 km
Length = 35 km
 
Figure 8. Connectivity as a function of vehicle density for an urban 
scenario of 2km x 2km.
10
30
50
70
90
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
Connectivity vs Vehice Density
Density (vh/km2)
Connectivity
 
 
Area = 4km2
 
Figure 9. Connectivity as a function of vehicle density and highway length 
for a highway scenario. 
5
15
25
35
45
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
Connectivity vs Vehice Density
Density (vh/km)
Connectivity
 
 
Length = 5km
Length = 15 km
Length = 25 km
Length = 35 km
IV. 
APPLICATIONS 
A. General Principles 
Based on the study of the network properties shown in the 
previous section, we can infer different ways to improve 
VANET routing protocols. In particular, based on periodic 
beaconing, a vehicle can correlate overall vehicle density with 
its node degree (i.e., node degree indicates the number of its 
neighbors). This allows a vehicle to determine whether it is the 
vehicle with the higher number of neighbors in the network, 
and uses this information to optimize its message relay 
mechanism. In addition to node degree metric, Section III.C 
indicates non-zero clustering coefficients for both urban and 
highway VANETs. This implies that a message broadcast 
from a vehicle is likely to be redundant with message 
broadcasts from one of its neighbors. Note that such redundant 
effect persists regardless of the vehicle density and network 
size. Due to this observation, it becomes clear that a 
suppression mechanism could potentially be used to address 
such issue. As a result, it is interesting to see how the results 
of the network property analysis presented here can be used to 
design and/or optimize VANET routing protocols. To 
illustrate this concept, an urban broadcast routing protocol is 
used as an illustrative example as shown later in this section. 
B. Improvement of the UV-CAST protocol 
Urban Vehicular Broadcast (UV-CAST) [4] protocol is 
proposed for safety message dissemination applications in 
urban VANETs, and it aims to deliver safety messages to all 
vehicles within a specified Region of Interest (ROI). UV-
CAST is designed to address both the imminent problems in 
well-connected and sparse networks (i.e., broadcast storm and 
disconnected network problems). As shown in Figure 10, a 
vehicle may operate in one of the two modes: well-connected 
or disconnected modes. In the well-connected regime, a 
broadcast suppression technique is implemented: based on its 
distance from the previous relay and location (e.g., whether it 
is at the intersection), a vehicle computes the waiting time and 
only 
rebroadcast 
the 
message 
if 
the timer expires and it does not receive a redundant message 
within the computed wait time. In the case that the vehicle is 
not in a well-connected regime, it may be assigned the Store-
Carry-Forward (SCF) task. Additional details can be found in 
[4]. While the UV-CAST protocol is shown to yield very good 
results, it still has some room for improvement as shown in 
Table VII where the performance of the UV-CAST protocol is 
compared against the optimal scheme (i.e., a flooding scheme 
where there are no message collisions or losses). To be 
specific, the UV-CAST protocol can be further improved in 
terms of network reachability and average received distance 
for low vehicle densities scenarios (see Table VII and Figure 
11), and in terms of message redundancy for high vehicle 
densities scenarios (i.e., [4] has shown that a vehicle receives, 
on average, 3.5 duplicate messages and the number tends to 
increase with vehicle density (see Figure 11)). 
TABLE VII.  
AVERAGE NETWORK REACHABILITY OF THE UV-CAST 
PROTOCOL AND THE OPTIMAL SCHEME IN THE MANHATTAN STREET 
SCENARIOS [4] 
Network Density [veh/km2] 
UV-CAST 
Optimal scheme 
20 
83.25% 
93.25% 
40 
97.13% 
100% 
60 
99.08% 
100% 
80 
99.63% 
100% 
100 
99.65% 
100% 
200 
99.72% 
100% 
400 
99.89% 
100% 
 
1) Improving the UV-CAST protocol via network science 
As mentioned previously, we aim to improve the UV-
CAST protocol and the extension will further address the 
disconnection and broadcast storm problems in sparse and 
well-connected 
regime, 
respectively. 
In 
the 
proposed 
improvement techniques, we introduce the variable 𝑘!"# , 
which is defined as the average number of neighbors of a 
vehicle. Although this variable is calculated based only on 
local information, it can be used to approximate the overall 
vehicle density. Note that the results on the node degree 
distribution shown in Section III.A indicate that it is very 
unlikely for a vehicle in low density network to have more 
than 3 neighbors (i.e., 𝑘!"# < 3), and most vehicles in high 
density networks have more than 4 neighbors (i.e., 𝑘!"# > 4). 
Based on such observation, we consider that a vehicle is in a 
disconnected regime if 𝑘!"# < 3 and in a well-connected 
regime when 𝑘!"# > 4. Note that the ‘intermediate’ regime is 
not the main focus here, since in such a network (e.g., 
moderately-connected network), performance of UV-CAST 
protocol is excellent (i.e., high network reachability and 
moderate number of redundant messages received at a 
vehicle). In the proposed scheme, two mechanisms are 
introduced: one to improve network reachability in low 
density network, and another to suppress message rebroadcast 
in high density network.  
 
Figure 10. Flowchart describing the operation of the UV-CAST protocol. 
(Abbrv: ROI-Region of Interest, SCF-Store-carry-forward mechanism) 
[4]. 
To improve network reachability in low density networks, 
we allow vehicles to rebroadcast despite receiving redundant 
message (before its computed timer expires). While this 
mechanism may impose additional overhead, it should not be 
problematic when it is only enabled in low densities scenarios; 
i.e., despite receiving a redundant message, a vehicle with 
𝑘!"# < 3 should still rebroadcast (after the wait time expires) 
with probability 1-s where s is defined below:  
𝑠=
0.5 + 0.5 ∙
!!"#
!
, 𝑘!"# < 3  
1, otherwise
                (8) 
This probability should be smaller as the vehicle density 
decreases, while maintaining a minimum of 50% probability 
(since for 50% of the vehicles this message will be redundant 
on average, according to the average clustering coefficient). 
We call this mechanism the "s" mechanism.  
On the other hand, in order to reduce the number of 
redundant messages in networks with high vehicle densities, 
we propose a mechanism to reduce the number of Store-carry-
forward (SCF) agents (in the disconnected regime) and 
number of message rebroadcasts (in the well-connected 
regime). To be specific, a vehicle only rebroadcasts (after the 
wait time expires) with probability ‘p’, and each time a vehicle 
fulfills the conditions to be an SCF agent, it becomes such an 
agent with probability  𝑝.   
𝑝=
1, otherwise
0.5 +
!.!
!!"#!!!! , 𝑘!"# > 4                    (9) 
Observe that, the value of p decreases with the vehicle 
density, and it is lower bounded by 0.5 because the average 
clustering coefficient of 0.5 indicates that half of the times a 
relayed message will be redundant, and half of the times it will 
not. We call this the "p" mechanism. 
Note that the average shortest path length and clustering 
coefficient results are not directly utilized in the improvement 
mechanisms, because both variables require additional 
message exchanged between vehicles (i.e., 2-hop neighbor 
information is needed to compute their values). 
 
2) Tests & Results 
We evaluated the two proposed mechanisms in the 
simulation environment similar to the one reported in [4]; i.e., 
a 1km x 1km ROI is considered around an accident scene in a 
Manhattan grid scenario. In addition, a 15-minute warm-up 
period is assumed. After the warm-up period, the source 
vehicle at the center of the network broadcasts a message, and 
statistics are collected 2 minutes after the first message 
broadcasts from the source. A total of 10 simulations were 
run. Note that kmed is computed based on an exponential 
moving average of the number of neighbors of the vehicle. 
Figure 11 present simulation results of both p and s 
mechanisms in terms of four different metrics:  
1. Reachability - the fraction of vehicles in ROI that is 
informed by the end of the simulation;  
2. Average received distance - the average distance to the 
accident scene when the vehicles receive the warning 
message;  
3. Average number of messages received per vehicle;  
4. Average number of transmitted messages per vehicle.  
 
In the two plots in the top of Figure 11, the performance of 
the proposed mechanisms are comparable to that of the UV-
CAST protocol in terms of reachability (except for the lowest 
density) 
and 
average 
received 
distance. 
Significant 
improvement of the proposed mechanisms is, however, 
observed in the high density networks (see the bottom two 
plots of Figure 11). It is worth pointing out that the ‘p’ 
mechanism can effectively address the broadcast storm 
problem as it significantly reduces the number of messages 
transmitted and received at a vehicle; UV-CAST with ‘p’ 
mechanism scales well with vehicle density. In addition, 
observe that the ‘s’ mechanism has negligible effect, 
especially in the high density networks, because it is only used 
when the vehicle density is low.  
Observing the results for each density, we observe that, for 
the lowest density considered, there is a slight degradation in 
 
Figure 11. Mechanisms added to the UV-CAST protocol with different 
combinations of the "p" and "s" mechanism regarding the reachability, the 
average received distance, the average number of messages received per 
vehicle and the average number of messages transmitted per vehicle. 
40
80
0.8
0.9
Density (veh/km2)
Reachability
 
 
40
80
300
500
Density (veh/km2)
Average received 
distance (m)
 
 
40
80
2
4
Density (veh/km2)
Average number of 
msg received
 
 
40
80
0.7
0.8
0.9
Density (veh/km2)
Average number of 
msg transmitted
 
 
UVCast
UVCast with p and s
UVCast with p only
UVCast with s only
reachability from 85% to 82% (see plot for "Reachability") 
without any change in the overhead on the network (rate of 
messages transmitted and received; see plots "Average 
number of msg transmitted" and "Average number of msg 
received"). Even though this might not be very significant, it 
goes against the goal of improving the network reachability 
for low vehicle densities, which is the goal of the designed "s" 
mechanism. In spite of this, for intermediate and high 
densities, the improvements are very significant, as we can see 
that both the "p" and "s" mechanisms contribute (with most 
contribution from the "p" mechanism) to a significant 
reduction in the network overhead (see the plots on the 
average number of transmitted and received messages) 
without any degradation on the reachability and average 
received distance metrics (see plots on Reachability and 
Average Received distance (m)). It is interesting to note that, 
with the proposed mechanisms (both the "p" and "s" 
mechanisms), the overhead (in terms of average number of 
message transmitted per vehicle) decreases with the vehicle 
density whereas the original UV-CAST provides the opposite 
trend. For the network with 100 veh/km2 density, ~25% 
improvement in terms of number of transmitted message per 
vehicle is observed when the proposed mechanisms (both "p" 
and "s" mechanisms) are in place.  
Thus, it is clear that the proposed "p" mechanism can 
improve the performance, as it helps in a very significant way 
to decrease the overhead in the network while maintaining the 
same performance quality. The "s" mechanism helps the "p" 
mechanism slightly by reducing the average number of 
messages transmitted and received. In spite of this, we observe 
that it does not improve the reachability of the network for the 
lower densities. It appears that the "s" mechanism acts as a 
message suppressor: the "s" mechanism enables some 
messages to be rebroadcasted by vehicles which have received 
the same message a short time before, but these new 
rebroadcasts end up suppressing the next rebroadcasts due to 
their high likelihood of having a redundant character for the 
multiple receiving vehicles. These effects are barely 
noticeable for lower densities, but become more visible for 
higher densities. 
While the proposed mechanisms are not effective in low 
density networks, improvement in terms of overhead in 
medium and high densities networks seems promising. 
Additional investigation is therefore needed to completely 
understand the dynamics of network properties of VANETs, 
and how one could incorporate network science in designing 
optimal (or completely new) routing protocols for VANETs. 
V. 
CONCLUSION 
In this work, we have studied urban and highway VANETs 
from a network science perspective by focusing on parameters 
such as node degree distribution, clustering coefficient, 
average shortest path length and connectivity. It is shown that 
VANETs are not scale-free networks as their node degree 
distributions can be approximated by Gaussian probability 
distributions; although low density VANETs might behave 
somehow similarly to small-world networks, the connectivity 
is too low to benefit from the small-world property. 
Furthermore, we established relationships between vehicle 
density and node degree distribution, as well as connectivity, 
in order to relate local information and global information. We 
also showed that the VANETs clustering coefficient is 
independent from the vehicle density, and we suggested ways 
to improve existing VANET protocols and/or create new 
VANET protocols. As an illustrative example, the urban 
vehicular broadcast protocol, namely UV-CAST protocol, is 
used as a baseline protocol. Simulation results indicate that the 
protocol can be improved via network science. The proposed 
extension to the UV-CAST protocol can significantly reduce 
the network overhead without degrading the reachability 
performance especially in medium and high network density 
scenarios. Nevertheless, it remains an interesting subject for 
future study to evaluate the impact of factors such as mobility 
patterns, road topology, penetration rate, and the underlying 
wireless network on the statistics of key network parameters  
and routing protocol performance. More importantly, network 
science can be used as an important tool to determine the 
performance limits of routing protocols and how one should 
design VANET routing protocols so that one can achieve such 
limits. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
We would like to thank André Cardote for providing us 
with semi-processed data and useful code for the expansion of 
the data collected by the Berkeley Highway Lab on the traffic 
in highway I-80. This work in this paper is supported by the 
FCT project DRIVE-IN: Distributed Routing and Infotainment 
through 
VEhicular 
Inter-Networking, 
CMU-
PT/NGN/0052/2008. 
REFERENCES 
[1] 
D. J. Watts & Steven H. Strotgatz, "Collective dynamics of 'small-world' 
networks," Nature, vol. 393, June 1998. 
[2] 
A. Barabási and R. Albert, "Emergence of Scaling in Random 
Networks," Science, vol. 286, October 1999. 
[3] 
J. M. Kleinberg, "Navigation in a small world," Nature, Vol. 406 (24 
August 2000). 
[4] 
W. Viriyasitavat, F. Bai, and O. Tonguz, “UV-CAST: An urban 
vehicular broadcast protocol,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Vehicular 
Networking Conference (VNC), Dec. 2010, pp. 25 –32 
[5] 
O. K. Tonguz, W. Viriyasitavat, and F. Bai. "Modeling urban traffic: a 
cellular automata approach," IEEE Communications Magazine, Topics 
in Automotive Networking, 47(5):142–150, May 2009. 
[6] 
Berkeley Highway Lab (BHL), http://sprocket.ccit.berkeley.edu/bhl.  
[7] 
A. Cardote, S. Sargento, and P. Steenkiste, “On the connection 
availability between relay nodes in a vanet,” in Proceedings of the IEEE 
Globecom 2010, Miami, Florida, USA, 2010.  
[8] 
N. Wisitpongphan, O. Tonguz, F. Bai, P. Mudalige, and V. Sadekar, “On 
the Routing Problem in Disconnected Vehicular Networks,” in 
INFOCOM Minisymposia 2007, Anchorage, Alaska, USA, May 2007. 
[9] 
L. A. N. Amaral, A. Scala, M. Barthélémy, and H. E. Stanley, "Classes 
of Small World Networks," in Proc. of the National Academy of 
Sciences, Vol. 97, No. 21. (10 October 2000), pp. 11149-11152. 
[10] X. F. Wang and G. Chen, "Complext Networks: Small-World, Scale-
Free and Beyond," in IEEE Circuits and Systems Magazine, First 
Quarter 2003. 
[11] S. H. Strotgatz, "Exploring complex networks," Nature, Vol. 410 (8 
March 2010).