Internet Service Providers’ and Individuals’
Attitudes, Barriers, and Incentives to Secure IoT
Nissy Sombatruang1
Tristan Caulﬁeld2
Ingolf Becker2
Akira Fujita1
Takahiro Kasama1
Koji Nakao1
Daisuke Inoue1
1National Institute of Information and Communications Technology
2University College London
Abstract
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and individual users of
Internet of Things (IoT) play a vital role in securing IoT.
However, encouraging them to do so is hard. Our study inves-
tigates ISPs’ and individuals’ attitudes towards the security
of IoT, the obstacles they face, and their incentives to keep
IoT secure, drawing evidence from Japan.
Due to the complex interactions of the stakeholders, we
follow an iterative methodology where we present issues and
potential solutions to our stakeholders in turn. For ISPs, we
survey 27 ISPs in Japan, followed by a workshop with repre-
sentatives from government and 5 ISPs. Based on the ﬁndings
from this, we conduct semi-structured interviews with 20 par-
ticipants followed by a more quantitative survey with 328
participants. We review these results in a second workshop
with representatives from government and 7 ISPs. The appre-
ciation of challenges by each party has lead to ﬁndings that
are supported by all stakeholders.
Securing IoT devices is neither users’ nor ISPs’ priority.
Individuals are keen on more interventions both from the
government as part of regulation and from ISPs in terms of
ﬁltering malicious trafﬁc. Participants are willing to pay for
enhanced monitoring and ﬁltering. While ISPs do want to help
users, there appears to be a lack of effective technology to
aid them. ISPs would like to see more public recognition for
their efforts, but internally they struggle with executive buy-in
and effective means to communicate with their customers.
The majority of barriers and incentives are external to ISPs
and individuals, demonstrating the complexity of keeping IoT
secure and emphasizing the need for relevant stakeholders in
the IoT ecosystem to work in tandem.
Copyright is held by the authors.
This is an extended version of our USENIX Security ’23 paper [41].
Introduction
The Internet of Things (IoT) brings several beneﬁts to individ-
uals and society. The ability to monitor properties remotely
via smart CCTV, adjust heating remotely, and utilise energy
more efﬁciently with a smart meter are just a few examples
that are gradually becoming part of many people’s lives. How-
ever, the lagging of security and privacy on these IoT devices
can expose users and the supporting networks to cybersecurity
risks. The 2016 Dyn attack which caused large-scale disrup-
tion to Internet services is a prime example of the risks that
the IoT can pose to both individual users of IoT and ISPs [3].
It provides compelling evidence for the need for both parties
to keep IoT secure.
The increasing involvement of ISPs in cleaning up infected
home computers [1,4,11,14,22] demonstrates that ISPs are
key to securing IoT. Individuals, as the owner and the user of
IoT devices, also have an important role in securing these de-
vices. However, the attitudes of ISPs and individuals towards
the need to secure IoT, and the incentives and obstacles that
encourage or discourage them to act to secure IoT are still
poorly understood.
This study seeks to understand these attitudes, obstacles,
and incentives by investigating ISPs and individuals in Japan.
Japan is of particular interest due to the country’s fast-growing
IoT adoption [29,42] and the government’s ambition to keep
the IoT ecosystem secure. This is most notably evident in the
National Operation Towards IoT Clean Environment (NO-
TICE), an ongoing nationwide project to identify and remedi-
ate vulnerable and infected IoT devices [33]. Our ﬁndings will
improve the effectiveness of NOTICE and similar projects
elsewhere.
For ISPs, we survey 27 ISPs across Japan followed by two
workshops in which 5 and 7 ISPs participated. For individuals,
we conduct semi-structured interviews with 20 participants
and followed this up with an online survey with 328 partici-
pants.
Our ﬁndings shed light on the profound complexity of the
effort to encourage ISPs and individuals to keep IoT secure.
arXiv:2210.02137v1  [cs.CY]  5 Oct 2022
While individuals have some concerns about the security and
privacy of IoT devices and ISPs are concerned about their
networks hosting infected/vulnerable IoT devices, keeping
IoT secure is only a secondary priority for them. Individuals
and ISPs also faced various barriers that deterred them from
doing so.
Most of the key incentives are external to ISPs and individ-
uals; hence, the onus of implementing these incentives falls
onto other stakeholders in the IoT ecosystem. In the grand
scheme of things, these ﬁndings suggest that: 1) solutions
can not be unilateral on the part of one stakeholder, 2) good
solutions require ISPs, governments, device manufacturers,
and individuals to work together, and 3) the other stakeholders
must help support and motivate individuals in their role.
In summary, our contributions are as follows:
• We investigate ISPs’ and individuals’ attitudes, barriers,
and incentives to secure IoT, being the ﬁrst to undertake
an integrated approach — by examining three aspects
from two stakeholders in one study.
• We provide evidence of these attitudes, barriers, and
incentives, the latter of which include the misaligned
incentive between ISPs and individuals.
• We synthesise lessons learned and propose considera-
tions to encourage ISPs and individuals to secure IoT.
Background and related work
Along with its many beneﬁts, the IoT also has disadvantages—
one of the most criticised being the risks to security and
privacy. Plenty of previous studies have produced evidence
of the vulnerabilities found on IoT devices. For example, Liu
et al [28] uncovered security issues in one smart home sys-
tem which allowed an attacker to compromise a passphrase
guarding the communication over the local wireless network.
Morgner et al [32] showed how an attacker can exploit a vul-
nerability in Zigbee 3.0, a wireless technology used in devices
such as door locks, and take over the devices from distance.
Alrawi et al [2] also evaluated and found vulnerabilities in a
long list of IoT devices, concerning as some of these devices
are popular products in the market.
More frightening than the theoretical attacks is the mount-
ing evidence of real-life attacks on IoT devices. Media reports
about the hacking of IoT such as Internet-connected CCTV
(e.g. [6, 45, 46]), and smart home systems [30] are not new
today. The most infamous IoT attack to date is the 2016 DYN
attacks in which millions of IoT devices infected by Mirai,
an IoT malware, were compromised and used to launch a
distributed denial-of services, causing a large-scale disruption
to Internet services [3,27].
With the IoT market expected to grow exponentially—
consumer spending is estimated to be 1.6 trillion US dol-
lars by 2025 [43]—the need to secure IoT devices cannot be
ignored.
2.1
The role of ISPs in keeping IoT secure
To understand ISPs’ roles in keeping IoT secure, understand-
ing their roles in mitigating botnets, a network of computers
infected by malware, paves the foundation.
In one of the earliest works in this area, Van Eeten et al [47]
analyzed a global set of spam data between 2005–2008 and
showed that a small number of ISPs accounted for a signif-
icant percentage of unique IP addresses used for sending
spam worldwide, demonstrating the ISPs’ unique position as
intermediaries in botnet mitigation. Their subsequent work
evaluating the role and performance of ISPs in botnet miti-
gation across 60 countries found that although the ISPs’ per-
formances varied, the ISPs can and do make a difference,
especially in identifying, notifying, and quarantining the in-
fected customer [4].
Pijpker and Vranken [37] established a reference model of
the ISPs roles in the anti-botnet life cycle from prevention
to detection, notiﬁcation, remediation, and recovery. They
validated the model with a representative sample of Dutch
ISPs and showed that ISPs spent most effort on the preven-
tion and notiﬁcation but less so on other activities [37]. The
OECD also reported various initiatives by the ISPs in the ﬁght
against botnets in Australia, Germany, Ireland, Japan, Korea,
the Netherlands, the UK, and the US [34].
A large part of the role of ISPs in keeping the IoT ecosys-
tem secure is similar to their role in combating botnets; indeed,
many botnets comprise IoT devices. A prime example of such
an endeavour is the cleanup of Mirai in the Netherlands. Cetin
et al [15] examined the ISPs’ uses of walled gardens on Mirai-
infected IoT devices. Traditionally, this practice is used to
quarantine and notify customers whose computers were in-
fected by malware and turned botnet. They found that the
use of walled garden remediated 92% of the Mirai infections
within 14 days, and outperformed the uses of email notiﬁ-
cation. Their ﬁndings provide compelling evidence of the
prominent role that ISPs play in keeping IoT secure, particu-
larly in the after-fact events (i.e., after customers’ IoT devices
were infected by malware).
ISPs can also play an important role in preventing the
spreading of customers’ infected IoT hosted in their network.
One approach is for the ISPs to scan for vulnerable IoT de-
vices and isolate them from the Internet before they are com-
promised [20]. Another approach is a wide scan of vulnerable
or infected IoT devices by central government agencies and
asked the ISPs to notify the owner of these vulnerable/infected
devices and ask them to take actions to remediate. This ap-
proach is being undertaken in Japan, under the ongoing ﬁve-
year NOTICE initiative [33]. In NOTICE, the National Insti-
tute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT)
identiﬁes vulnerable or compromised IoT devices; partici-
pating ISPs are informed and assume the responsibility of
identifying and notifying their customers who own the de-
vices. While the effectiveness of this approach is yet to be
evaluated, one key lesson learned from the previous Japanese
government’s effort to clean up malware and botnet on end
users’ computers (under the CCC and ACTIVE initiative, see
Appendix A.1) suggested that participating ISPs in NOTICE
are likely to lack the incentives to actively involve and invest
in the effort.
The lack of incentives also deters ISPs from keeping IoT
secure in general [16]. Therefore, working together with the
ISPs to identify their attitudes in securing IoT, the barriers they
face, and identify incentives to encourage them to overcome
these obstacles is imperative.
2.2
The role of individuals
Individuals who own and use IoT devices are another key
stakeholder in keeping IoT secure. In an ideal world, they
would conﬁgure appropriate security and privacy settings and
maintain good security hygiene until these devices reached
their end of life. However, the reality is rather different.
The ﬁeld of human factors in security has long posited that
security is a secondary, not primary, task [39,48,49]. Simply
put, security tasks such as changing the default password on
IoT devices are less important than the primary task: getting
the new device up and running. Security and privacy is not
the most important factor in IoT device purchase behaviour
either: Emami-Naeini et al [23] showed that they were ranked
below features and price.
Individuals also have different levels of experience and
skill when it comes to ﬁxing compromised devices. A study
of ISP customers asked to identify and remediate compro-
mised devices on their home networks found that, while the
participants were motivated, many could not complete all the
recommended steps [8]. Relying less on individuals to se-
cure IoT and more on device makers to make IoT devices
secure by design is a better solution. A study investigating
responsibilities for smart device security and privacy found
that users largely viewed the responsibility for security as
shared between themselves and device manufacturers [25].
Although progress has been made and governments some
countries (e.g. the UK [19], Australia [24], and Japan [35])
have mandated or recommended device makers to do so, there
are still a large number of devices that are not secure [2].
Therefore, individuals still have a role to play in securing the
IoT ecosystem.
Scope and methodology
In this study, we examine two key stakeholders in the IoT
ecosystem: ISPs and individuals. For ISPs, we sought their
views on their customers’ IoT devices (hosted in the ISPs’
networks), not the IoT devices used by the ISPs. For individ-
uals, the scope was limited to ordinary users of IoT and in
personal context only (i.e., in the household).
We aimed to answer three research questions:
Q1—What are ISPs’ and individuals’ attitudes towards the
security and privacy of IoT?
Attitudes toward the security and privacy of IoT are fun-
damental to the ISPs’ and individuals’ course of action on
securing IoT. Understanding their attitudes is key to why they
do or do not keep IoT secure. Speciﬁcally in this study, we
sought to understand their concerns about IoT, perceived like-
lihood that IoT can be compromised, their commitment to
keep IoT secure, and their perception of the contribution made
by other stakeholders to secure IoT.
Q2—What are the barriers that prevent ISPs and individuals
to keep IoT secure?
For individuals, we sought to identify the barriers that pre-
vent them from securing or remediating IoT devices. For ISPs,
we focused on identifying the barriers that prevent them from
investing and/or committing to keeping IoT devices on their
networks secure.
Q3—What are the incentives to encourage ISPs and individu-
als to keep IoT secure?
Incentives are key to encourage ISPs and individuals to
keep IoT secure. We sought to identify internal and external
incentives. We deﬁned internal incentives as those that need to
be applied to ISPs and individuals to motivate them to secure
IoT. External incentives, on the other hand, are those that need
to be applied to other relevant stakeholders (to encourage or
make it easier for ISPs and individuals to keep IoT secure).
3.1
Methodology
We divided the research into studies of both ISPs and individ-
uals. Based on the complex interactions between the stake-
holders when trying to secure the IOT, we decided to adapt an
iterative participatory action research based approach for our
research [36]. Participatory action research has been success-
fully used in studying complex information systems [5,21].
The ISPs study consisted of a survey and two workshops. The
individuals study consisted of user interviews and a survey.
Each study is discussed in turn. An overview of the relation-
ships between the different studies is shown in Fig. 1. The
ISP survey was conducted initially, and the ﬁrst ISP workshop
was held after this to get feedback and clariﬁcation about sur-
vey ﬁndings. Both the survey and workshop then fed into the
design of the individuals interviews and subsequent survey.
Finally, a ﬁnal ISP workshop was held to discuss the ﬁndings
from the earlier studies.
3.1.1
ISPs study
Recruitment and demographic of ISPs
We advertised
and recruited ISPs through the ICT Information Sharing and
Analysis Centre Japan (ICT-ISAC)1. ICT-ISAC regularly
1Established in 2016, the centre is responsible for promoting a safe ICT
society in Japan. Its members consist of organisations related to ICT, e.g.
ISPs questionnaire
(n = 27)
1st ISPs workshop
(n = 5)
User interviews
(n = 20)
Individual survey
(n = 328)
2nd ISPs workshop
(n = 7)
Consolidated results
Direct input
Partial input
Figure 1: Overview of the methodology
holds information exchange opportunities among ISPs, and
participating ISPs are incentivized to exchange information
on the status of security measures, issues, and knowledge of
other ISPs. We requested that the ideal representative from the
ISPs be in a position that can inﬂuence new policies or strate-
gies in their organisation and have a sound understanding of
the roles, responsibilities, and abilities of ISPs in keeping the
Internet secure.
A total of 27 ISPs took part in the survey, 5 in the 1st work-
shop, and 7 in the 2nd workshop (4 of them also took part
in the 1st workshop). Participating ISPs encompassed mixed
demographics with varied customers sizes, service coverage,
and experiences with previous and current government’s ini-
tiatives to promote safe ICT (Table 6). Representatives from
various government were also present, although primarily in
an observatory role. All ISPs participated voluntarily and no
monetary reward was given.
ISP survey
The online (LimeSurvey) survey was designed
to collect data about the ISPs’ attitudes, barriers, and incen-
tives to keep IoT secure. It took approximately one hour to
complete. We tested the questions with experienced mem-
bers of the ICT-ISAC before launching the survey to ensure
that the questions were sound and the survey’s length was
appropriate.
The survey has three parts (shown in Appendix A.4). Part 1
asks about demographic details of the ISPs. Part 2 asks about
the attitudes and barriers. Speciﬁcally, it asks about concerns
about their networks hosting infected/vulnerable IoT devices,
perceived likelihood of their networks being attacked, roles
and responsibilities of ISPs in securing IoT activities (and
their current level of commitment to them), the priority of
ISPs, security companies, and equipment manufacturers. www.ict-isac.jp
keeping the IoT ecosystem secure, and their perception of
how other stakeholders have acted to secure IoT.
For barriers, we ask about the barriers which ISPs face
internally within their organisation and externally—in terms
of law and regulation, and in aiding NOTICE. Part 3 asked
about initiatives that ISPs viewed as incentives to motivate
them to keep IoT secure in general and in aiding NOTICE.
We collected quantitative and qualitative data. Quantitative
data were responses from rating, ranking, and multiple choices
(single and multiple answers) questions. Qualitative data were
from free-text questions. All questions asked for quantitative
data, except for those about the barriers in NOTICE.
For quantitative data, we performed statistical tests to deter-
mine the statistical signiﬁcance of the ﬁndings. The Shapiro-
Wilk test for normality was done ﬁrst to determine whether
the data being analyzed was normally distributed. For rating
questions, the mean (µ) was used to describe the central ten-
dency of the responses if data were normally distributed and
the median ( ˜X) and the mode (Mo) were used if data were not
normally distributed [44]. McDonald’s Omega was also used
as a measure for internal consistency2 and was found to be re-
liable (ωmin =0.72). For ranking questions, the Friedman test
was used to determine the signiﬁcance of the ranking scores.
For multiple choices questions, the proportion test was used
to determine whether the observed proportions of the selected
answer choices were statistically signiﬁcantly different. To
compare responses between multiple sub-groups (mainly ISP
sizes), we performed Mann-Whitney U tests. Where neces-
sary, the signiﬁcance boundaries of the statistical tests were
Bonferroni adjusted to account for multiple comparisons.
The small number of qualitative responses from the survey
were thematically grouped by two researchers to identify
common barriers that ISPs faced in the NOTICE project. This
grouping was reviewed by other team members and iteratively
reﬁned until consensus was reached. The grouping can be
seen in Table 9.
ISP workshops
We held two ISP online workshops (due
to COVID-19 travel restriction) at two different stages in the
study (Figure 1). Each of them served a different purpose.
The 1st workshop took place after the ISP survey. The aim
was to obtain feedback and clariﬁcation about the ﬁndings
from the survey. Feedback relevant to individuals was also
used to inform the design of the individuals’ study. In the
workshop, one researcher chaired the session, two took de-
tailed notes and facilitated when required, and one of them
presented a summary of key points at the end of the workshop.
The 2nd workshop took place after the individuals’ study.
The objectives were to share preliminary ﬁndings from the
individuals study with ISPs and seek their feedback where
relevant. This was run in the same way as the 1st workshop.
2Cronbach’s Alpha does not suit small sample size (n<30)
3.1.2
Individuals study
Recruitment and demographic of participants
We ad-
vertised and recruited participants in Japan for both user in-
terviews and survey through NTT Com Research3. Eligible
participants must be living in Japan, are at least 18 years
old, and were required to possess one IoT device besides a
smartphone, tablet, or Wi-Fi router.
A total of 20 participants took part in the user interviews
and 328 in the survey. Participants encompassed a mixed de-
mographic: gender, age, and IoT devices they have (Table 5).
User interviews
The interviews aimed to gain a prelim-
inary understanding of individuals’ attitudes, barriers, and
incentives to keep IoT secure. Findings from the interviews
were primarily used to inform the design of the survey but
some of the ﬁndings were also used to interpret the ﬁndings
from the survey where appropriate.
A one-to-one, semi-structured one-hour online interview
took place with each participant. The interview consisted of
three parts (see Appendix A.5 for the interview guide). Part 1
asked about the uses of IoT devices and factors affecting the
uptake decisions. Part 2 asked about the security and privacy
of IoT. This included the extent and the nature of concerns and
supporting rationale, priority to keep IoT secure, the security
hygiene practice on IoT devices and any problems they en-
countered, the perceived likelihood of their IoT devices being
compromised and the rationale supporting their perception,
and their experiences of remediating compromised IoT de-
vices. Part 3 asked about possible initiatives that individuals
viewed as incentives to motivate them to keep IoT secure.
Interviews were recorded and manually transcribed. Each
participant was then assigned a non-identiﬁable ID (P1–P20).
We followed an established methodology for iterative the-
matic analysis [10,31]. After familiarising ourselves with the
transcripts, two researchers generated initial codes that repre-
sented reoccurring aspects in the data. These codes (and their
associated quotations) were discussed and deﬁned with the
larger researcher team, before repeating the coding process
on all of the transcripts. After four rounds of this process the
codebook was stable: we reached consensus on the meaning
of the codes and their occurrences in the transcripts. At this
point codes were grouped into themes. This process was sup-
ported by a review of prior literature, allowing us to identify
reoccurring themes as well as new, divergent ideas in our
data. These resulting themes were used to inform the survey
structure and answer options, and the ﬁndings are discussed
in Sections 5 and 6. The codebook and coding matrix can be
seen in Table 10.
3The company provides various data collection services in Japan, includ-
ing Internet surveys, and has about 2.17 million registered users from all over
the country as of March 2021 (https://research.nttcoms.com).
Survey
The design of the survey is based on the ﬁndings
from the interviews. It has three parts (see Appendix A.6
for an English translation) and follows the same topics and
subjects as the interview. The original surveys uses a number
of common Likert scales which have been translated with
matching English ones.
In examining incentives, we also examined participants’
willingness to pay (WTP) for IoT security services. A contin-
gent valuation (CV) method was used by asking participants
to specify the amount they were willing to pay for four IoT
security services: trafﬁc monitoring, remote assistance, home
visit, and a bundled service including all of these. CV is used
widely in economic studies to determine the stated preference
of the WTP for a product or service (e.g. [7,18,40]).
We applied the same statistical tests used in the ISP survey
(Section 3.1.1) for the rating, ranking, and multiple-choice
questions. Cronbach’s alpha was used to determine the inter-
nal consistency of rating responses (αmin =0.94, suggesting
that they were reliable).
The online survey took about 20-25 minutes to complete.
Prior to its launch, we iterated on the questions with four
researchers.
3.2
Ethics consideration
The study was conducted after having been approved by the
institutional review board. Permission was granted provided
that we informed participants about the study, obtain their
consent before data collection, and complied with Japan’s Act
on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI). Individual
participants gave informed consent to participate in the study,
and no personally identifying information was collected. The
ISP participants were aware of the time commitments, and
results of this research are provided to the ISPs, which is
an incentive for them. Each individual participant received
¥5500 and ¥1000 yen to participate in the interview and online
survey, respectively.
Results: ISPs
We begin with the results from the ISPs’ perspective. ISPs
with more than 10,000 and less than 1 million customers were
classed as ‘medium’, with ‘small’ and ‘large’ ISPs on either
side of this range. See Table 6 for full ISP demographics.
4.1
Attitudes toward IoT security and privacy
ISPs had varying concerns about the potential impact of IoT
security risks, the perceived likelihood that the risks will be-
come materialized, and their priority to securing IoT ecosys-
tem.
4.1.1
Nature of concern
Overall, ISPs in Japan are most concerned about service dis-
ruption to customers as a result of their network hosting in-
fected/vulnerable IoT devices (1st), followed by the need to
take social responsibilities as a result of IoT attacks occurred
in their network (2nd), and reputation damage (3rd). The loss
of customers and market share, incurred ﬁnancial cost and
warning from relevant authorities are less of the concern, rank-
ing as the bottom three. The ranking varies slightly by the
size of ISPs. While service disruption ranks ﬁrst for large and
medium ISPs, social responsibilities ranks ﬁrst for small ISPs.
Incurring ﬁnancial cost also ranks highly (3rd) in small ISPs,
suggesting they are constrained by ﬁnancial resources. The
full ranking can be found in Table 8 in the Appendix.
The ﬁnding that service disruption to customers ranks ﬁrst
makes logical sense as it can be considered a trigger of all
other consequences: it can lead to the need to take social
responsibilities and reputation damage.
The ﬁnding that social responsibilities ranked highly is
rather intriguing. It is likely to have a deep root in the long-
standing corporate culture in Japan called “kyosei”, the con-
cept of living and working together for the common good
which emphasised taking care of the society and being part
of the community [26].
Feedback from the 1st ISP workshop shed some light on
why ISPs felt strongly about social responsibilities. One small
ISP rationalised that the lack of known information about the
potential impact on customers as a result of vulnerable IoT de-
vices present in their network made them feel that they need to
take more social responsibility than customers would [ISP5].
Another ISP, large in size, added that to them taking social
responsibilities was also about being responsible for customer
service delivery and for any inconvenience they may have
caused to other ISPs if their network were infected/attacked
by IoT botnet such as Mirai [ISP2].
4.1.2
IoT attacks on ISPs’ network
Overall, most ISPs felt indecisive about the likelihood of the
IoT attacks happening, either to or from their networks to
other ISPs. On the scale of “mostly unlikely” to “unlikely”,
“neutral”, “likely”, and “mostly likely”, the median ( ˜X) and
mode (Mo) are “neutral”. The same ˜X and Mo were also
observed in small, medium, and large ISPs.
Feedback from the 1st ISP workshop helped us to under-
stand some of the rationale supporting the ISPs’ ratings. One
ISP rating “unlikely” based their rationale on past network
statistics which have been pretty stable [ISP4]. Another, also
rating “unlikely” was conﬁdent in their ability to control traf-
ﬁc volume and so did not think the attacks would be likely
[ISP5]. One of the largest ISPs in Japan simply admitted not
having enough information to make a prediction [ISP1].
8%
4%
19%
23%
4%
12%
15%
4%
12%
50%
69%
69%
69%
50%
19%
31%
27%
12%
4%
Prevention
Detection
Notification
Remediation
Recovery
Strongly disagree
Somewhat disagree
I'm not sure
Somewhat agree
Strongly agree
19%
12%
15%
26%
15%
8%
12%
41%
15%
11%
8%
15%
11%
26%
67%
62%
54%
26%
15%
7%
23%
8%
7%
Prevention
Detection
Notification
Remediation
Recovery
Not contributing at all
Not contributing much
I'm not sure
Contributes to a certain extent
Full contribution
A. Perceived responsibility
B. Current level of commitment
*, **
*, **
*, **
*, **
*, **
*, **
*, **
*, **
*, **
** 
*
* Median 
** Mode
Figure 2: ISPs’ perceived responsibilities on key activities to
keep IoT secure and their current level of commitment
4.1.3
Priority, perceived responsibilities, and commit-
ment
Overall, most ISPs rated the priority for keeping IoT secure
as “medium” (desired task) ( ˜X = Mo). The rating for large
and medium ISPs were also “medium” but for small ISPs
was “low” (tasked to be done if there is room) ( ˜X = Mo,
with p=0.016 when comparing small against medium ISP,
U =10.5).
In examining the perceived responsibilities of ISPs on key
activities to keep IoT secure, most ISPs agreed that they are
responsible for all ﬁve key activities: prevention, detection,
notiﬁcation, remediation, and recovery ( ˜X = Mo = “some-
what agree”) (Fig. 2). By ISP size, the same rating was also
observed for most of the key activities, although there were a
number of statistically signiﬁcant variations: large ISPs view
detection as less of a duty than medium ones, who in turn
view it as less of a duty than small ones (U =40 and U =21,
both p<0.05). Large ISPs also viewed remediation actions
as less of their responsibility than medium and small ones
(U =43.5, p<0.05).
Their current commitment to these ﬁve activities was fairly
consistent with their perceived responsibilities. Overall, most
ISPs made some contributions to all these activities ( ˜X =
Mo= “contributed to a certain extent”), except for prevention
activities ( ˜X = “not sure”, Mo = “Not contributing much”)
and recovery activities ( ˜X =Mo= “Not contributing much”).
These ﬁndings suggested that although ISPs felt that they
were responsible for key activities in keeping IoT secure. One
medium ISP explained in the 1st ISP workshop that part of
the reasons was the view that the government’s NOTICE ini-
tiative would reduce the cost associated with the recovery
activities because NOTICE would reduce the likelihood of
IoT attacks from happening [ISP3]. Like large and medium
ISPs, small ISPs also perceived the likelihood of IoT attacks
as medium (Section 4.1.2). However, unlike the two counter-
parts, small ISPs rated the priority of keeping IoT secure as
low. They were also unsure about their commitment to half of
the key activities to keep IoT secure. One possible root cause
is the lack of knowledge and information to make informed
decisions about investing in keeping IoT secure, discussed
below.
4.2
Obstacles to keeping IoT secure
4.2.1
Internal barriers
Overall, a shortage of skilled staff to keep IoT secure was
chosen most (human resource, 44%) (Table 7). About four in
ten ISPs identiﬁed convincing executives in the organisation
to buy into the idea of securing IoT as a barrier (executive
buy-in, 44%). Budget constraints (ﬁnancial, 37%) and lack of
technology without new investment (technology, 37%) were
also identiﬁed but by fewer ISPs. These barriers varied consid-
erably by ISP size. The distribution of internal barriers were
statistically signiﬁcantly different from chance for the overall
data as well as large ISPs and medium ISPs (see Table 7).
Feedback from the 1st ISP workshop clariﬁed the nature
of these barriers. One small ISP explained that although the
ﬁnancial budget is not the barrier itself, allocating the budget
to secure IoT is hard because it is difﬁcult to determine the
effort needed [ISP5]. The nature of this feedback suggested
that the small ISP lacked the knowledge to make informed
decisions about planning and investing in securing IoT. Re-
garding executive buy-in, one large ISP explained that trying
to convince executives to see the point of keeping IoT secured
and its beneﬁts was more difﬁcult than for other types of
threats [ISP1]. For example, in the case of spamming, it was
easier to explain the clear beneﬁt of reducing the number of
abuses which led to cost savings. Attempting to do the same
in the context of IoT was difﬁcult.
4.2.2
External barriers
To understand external barriers, we ﬁrst examined ISPs’ views
on how other stakeholders have sufﬁciently keep IoT secure.
Most ISPs had a mixed, but overall neutral opinion on how
IoT corporate users, other ISPs, government, and research in-
stitutes have sufﬁciently done their part in keeping IoT secure
( ˜X = Mo = “neutral”). However, they were less optimistic
about individual IoT users and IoT device makers ( ˜X =Mo=
“somewhat disagree”) (Fig. 3). There were no statistically
signiﬁcant variations by ISP size.
33%
8%
12%
12%
4%
44%
23%
8%
42%
19%
19%
19%
42%
73%
19%
50%
58%
4%
27%
23%
27%
15%
12%
4%
8%
IoTs users – individuals 
IoTs users – corporates
Other ISPs
IoTs device makers
Government
Research institutions
Strongly disagree
Somewhat disagree
Neutral
Somewhat agree
Strongly agree
*,**
*,**
*,**
*,**
*,**
*,**
* Median  ** Mode
Figure 3: ISPs’ views of how other stakeholders sufﬁciently
keep IoT secure
Feedback from the ISP workshop shed light on why: ISPs
felt that individual users were less likely to manage the de-
vices properly and more likely to have problems with IoT
security because these users make careless conﬁguration set-
tings on routers. These points agreed with individual users’
perceptions: lack of knowledge and skills to keep IoT secure
was one of the barriers that individuals reported they faced
(Section 5.2). Regarding IoT device makers, even though the
new regulation in Japan mandates all IoT devices to be secure
by default, there were a large number of devices released to
the market before the new regulation came into effect, which
remain a problem.
In examining regulatory barriers, Telecommunication Busi-
ness Law Article 4 (Protection of “secret of communica-
tion”) was the biggest barrier ( ˜X = “somewhat agree”, Mo=
“strongly agree”). In a nutshell, this law does not allow ISPs
to monitor/inspect customers’ Internet trafﬁc, even if some of
them are malicious, and prohibits ISPs in Japan from imple-
menting a walled garden even though Cetin et al [13] showed
that it was an effective practice to mitigate the risks from
IoT botnets. ISPs viewed other law and regulation less of a
barrier (Japan APPI) ( ˜X = “neutral”, Mo = “somewhat dis-
agree”), the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
( ˜X = Mo = “neutral”), and Net neutrality ( ˜X = Mo = “neu-
tral”).
4.2.3
Barriers to notiﬁcation
These barriers were identiﬁed from the qualitative responses
in the ISP survey and then discussed in the workshops. In
identifying customers whose IoT devices were identiﬁed as
vulnerable/infected, two issues emerged. First, the dynamic
nature of IP addresses made it difﬁcult, or often not possible,
to match the list of IP addresses received from NOTICE and
the customer’s IP address. Second, trafﬁc logs were not al-
ways available. Even if they are available, the sheer volume
of logs made the race to ﬁnd a needle in the haystack against
time very challenging.
In notifying customers whom ISPs identiﬁed as the “real”
owner of the IP addresses behind the infected/vulnerable de-
vices, there were three issues. First, ISPs did not always have
customers’ up-to-date contact details, especially their per-
sonal e-mail addresses. Currently, ISPs notiﬁed customers via
carrier email, an email that ISPs created for customers when
they signed up, but most customers rarely (or never) check it.
Feedback from the ISP workshop indicated that this issue is a
major bottleneck. Some small ISPs tried to reach customers
by phone or home visit but did not always succeed. Hence,
most ISPs relied largely on carrier email to notify customers.
Second, in many cases, ISPs were not able to notify the
owner of the infected/vulnerable devices. The owner of the
device and the owner of the internet connection were not
always the same. For example, it is not uncommon for parents
to sign a contract with ISPs on behalf of their children, or for
a landlord to sign the contract but the tenants own the IoT
devices.
Finally, even when the ISPs managed to notify customers
successfully, many customers did not understand or were
not convinced about the risks this process aimed to mitigate.
Many of them ignored the problem and did not remediate their
devices. Feedback from the ﬁrst ISP workshop shed light on
the likely root causes. The risks from “vulnerable” devices
is future risk; it is hard for customers to imagine how or if
the risks will be materialised. The general public was also
perceived by ISPs to lack awareness about the consequences
of not ﬁxing IoT devices, meaning that some customers might
not recognise it as an issue or see the beneﬁts from protecting
or remediating these devices.
4.3
Enabling a secure IoT
4.3.1
Internal measures
When asked which measures may help motivate their organ-
isation to invest more in securing the IoT ecosystem, most
chosen by ISPs was acquiring technology to detect infected
and/or vulnerable IoT devices (50%), followed by executive
and staff buy-in to the idea of securing IoT (33%) (Table 1).
This is in contrast with the ranking of barriers (Table 7), where
executive buy-in was ranked higher than a lack of technology.
Only a few ISPs (12%) chose monetizing IoT (such as
by offering IoT security services to customers), and none
wanted to transfer costs associated with keeping IoT secure
to customers. In the workshop, the ISPs expanded on this.
The ﬁrst concern was that an extremely diverse range of IoT
devices made it difﬁcult to design a security service package
that covers all or a reasonable fraction of IoT devices. Further,
the ISPs were afraid of a large gap between the service that
ISPs can offer and that customers expect from ISPs, and of
over-promising to customers if the ISPs fail to detect and
block IoT malware. Moreover, convincing executives in the
organisation to approve any new services is usually hard in
general, even harder for a security service because it is not
ISPs’ core service.
Table 1: % of ISPs per general incentives to secure IoT
Overall
Large
Medium
Small
Incentives
n
%
n
%
n
%
n
%
Internal
Tech to detect infected IoT
50
50
50
50
Executive & staff buy-in
33
50
27
25
Offer IoT security service
12
25
7
0
Transfer cost to customer
0
0
0
0
External
(M) Device makers secure IoT
70
88
57
100
(G) Amend law to restrict trafﬁc
58
63
60
25
(G) Public recognition for ISPs
52
50
50
75
(G) Government subsidy
50
50
53
25
(U) Individuals keep IoT secure
33
13
40
50
(U) Corporate keep IoT secure
33
13
43
50
(G) Amend law to monitor trafﬁc
31
13
50
0
(G) Public-private sector partnership
22
38
13
25
(G) Make net neutrality optional
11
13
7
25
(R) Input from research community
12
0
13
25
(I) Equal responsibilities for ISPs
4
0
7
0
(I) ISPs performance dashboard
4
0
7
0
Other
4
13
0
0
Not sure
0
0
0
0
χ2(17)
115.70**
48.76**
66.28**
29.53*
(M) = device maker, (U) = end users, (G) = government, (I) = ISPs community, (R) =
research community, *, ** p<0.05, and p<0.001, respectively.
4.3.2
External measures
A large proportion of ISPs wanted device makers to secure
IoT devices (70%) (Table 1). This is consistent with ISPs
views on obstacles (Section 4.2.2). Fewer ISPs wanted users,
individual or corporate, to secure IoT devices (33%), despite
ISPs stating that end users have insufﬁciently kept IoT secure
(Section 4.2.2).
Some incentives from governments appealed to ISPs, with
“amending the law to allow ISPs to restrict customer trafﬁc”
being ranked highest (58%). Essentially, this would allow
ISPs to block malicious IoT trafﬁc and set up a walled garden.
About half of ISPs also viewed public recognition of ISPs
for keeping IoT secure as an incentive (58%), which may be
related to the “kyosei” principle. Government subsidy also
appealed to half of ISPs, suggesting that in the context of
securing IoT in general, one in two ISPs would rather seek
ﬁnancial support from the government than making money
from or transfer costs to customers. Some ISPs (22%) consid-
ered a public-private sector partnership such as NOTICE an
incentive.
4.3.3
Notiﬁcation measures
With the NOTICE initiative, the government detects vulner-
able and compromised IoT devices, and passes a list of IP
addresses to ISPs. To help with this, ﬁrst and foremost ISPs
wanted the risks and impacts of leaving IoT devices vulner-
able/infected known to the public so that the users under-
stood the importance of remediating these devices (69%)
(Table 2). This made sense given that ISPs identiﬁed users
ignoring the problem when the ISPs notiﬁed them about vul-
Table 2: % of ISPs per incentives for NOTICE
Overall
Large
Medium
Small
Incentives
n
%
n
%
n
%
n
%
(M) Public awareness of risks
69
63
79
50
(R) Effective notiﬁcation method
38
38
43
25
(N) Tech to authenticate notiﬁcation
33
13
40
50
(N) Tech to track notiﬁcation
33
50
33
0
(R) Support from academia to iden-
tify effective notiﬁcation method
31
0
43
50
(G) Government subsidy
27
50
14
25
(N) More data from NOTICE to iden-
tify owners of vulnerable devices
15
50
13
25
χ2(7)
31.42**
15.81*
24.01**
6.03
(M) = non speciﬁed party, (G) = government, (R) = research community, (N) = NO-
TICE project, *, ** p<0.05, and p<0.001, respectively.
nerable/infected IoT devices as a barrier (Section 4.2.3).
The next most selected incentive was published data on
effective notiﬁcation methods to notify customers about the
infected/vulnerable IoT devices (38%), most likely due to
ISPs identifying the use of carrier email as a bottleneck in the
notiﬁcation process. About a third wanted technology that al-
lows the notiﬁed customers to authenticate the notiﬁcation (to
ensure it is from the ISP and not from a scammer or spammer)
(33%), the ISPs to track the status of notiﬁcations sent to the
customers (33%), and support from the research community
to identify effective channels to notify customers (31%), the
latter of which we examined in this study (Section 5.3.1).
Results: Individuals
Now we consider the individuals’ perspective. These results
are based on our analysis of 20 interviews and 328 survey
participants as described in Section 3.1.2. Throughout this
section we use quotations from the interviews to help contex-
tualise the qualitative results of the survey.
5.1
Attitudes toward IoT security and privacy
5.1.1
Concerns by types of IoT
Overall, participants mostly feel unconcerned about the secu-
rity and privacy of the different types of IoT. The ˜X and Mo
are “not concerned” or “Neutral” for most devices excepted
for smartphone/tablets, smart security devices, smart gadgets
for kids and home assistants ( ˜X =Mo= “somewhat worry”).
The observed “somewhat not worry” on smart health de-
vices was puzzling; these devices tend to collect and process
data about the users’ health. The ﬁnding suggested that par-
ticipants may not view this data as sensitive enough to worry
about.
5.1.2
Nature of concerns
Participants in the survey were most concerned about the ﬁ-
nancial loss (e.g. leakage of credit card details linked to IoT
Home assistant 
Smart TV
Smart gadgets for kids 
Smart garden appliances 
Smart health appliances 
Smart home office equipment 
Smart kitchen appliances 
Smart leisure gadgets 
Smart remote controls 
Smart security devices 
Smart utility meter 
Smartphone / tablet
Wi-Fi router
33
20
11
26
7
38
19
22
22
6
40
19
11
25
9
40
11
11
27
8
41
14
5 21
28
12
23
11
5 16
34
7
29
12
Not concerned at all
Not concerned
Neutral
Concerned
Very concerned
Figure 4: Proportion of participants and their concerns about
security and privacy of IoT by types of IoT.
devices), unsurprising given the importance of ﬁnancial re-
sources. Invasion of privacy (e.g. data leakage from smart
CCTV or TV) ranked second, and participants ranked incon-
venience of disruption to daily activities (e.g. being locked
out from home as a result of unauthorised locking of the door)
third. Physical effect, and harms to household assets were
of the lowest concern. There were virtually no differences
between the age groups and genders throughout this analysis.
All rankings are statistically signiﬁcant (χ2(5) at p<0.001).
5.1.3
Perceived likelihood of devices being compro-
mised
Participants are uncertain about the likelihood of their IoT
devices being compromised. Those that consider it unlikely
that their devices had been compromised have varying rea-
sons for believing so. The ﬁnancial angle was predominant,
with 53% selecting “no suspicious activities on ﬁnancial ser-
vices”. It suggested that participants were protective of ﬁnan-
cial resources and resort to them as a means to determine the
likelihood of IoT risks becoming materialised.
These options highlight incorrect mental models about the
activity of IoT malware and anti-virus as if it is a panacea to
all cyber threats. In the user interviews, 9 participants (9/20,
45%) also turned to anti-virus report to determine whether
their IoT devices have been compromised; as an example, P13
explained, “Since the monthly report of the security software
shows that there have been zero detection so far, I believe
that I am safe even to the extent that I am not fully aware
of in my PC. Based on this, I assume that IoT devices con-
nected to the same environment are also safe.” Cetin et al [13]
observed a similar mental model concerning anti-virus and
IoT among users in the Netherlands; their participants ran
anti-virus software on PCs to solve the infection of an IoT
device. Theirs and ours ﬁndings suggested that, despite cul-
tural differences between both countries, their residents have
similar misconceptions about anti-virus and IoT.
5.2
IoT security hygiene and barriers
Participants in the survey indicated conﬁguring various secu-
rity and privacy settings as part of IoT device setup. The three
most selected features were two-factor authentication (2FA,
38%), despite only one participant mentioning 2FA in the
user interviews (1/20, 5%), setting up account and password
to restrict access (37%), and updating software and ﬁrmware
(36%). Participants touched other features less: changing de-
fault password (31%), setting mode of software update (to
auto or manual) (30%), deleting any old data that may still be
on the device (19%), and restricting data sharing (15%).
Barriers to remediating compromised IoT
We asked par-
ticipants who suspected that their IoT devices may have
been infected (“Maybe/I don’t know”, “Probably”, and “Deﬁ-
nitely”) (n=169) if they had tried to remediate the devices.
The majority of them did not (74%). The most frequently
selected reason was “not knowing where to start” (56/125,
45%), followed by “easier to replaced it with new device”
(36/125, 28%) and “ﬁxing it did not worth the stress and
time” (36/125, 28%).
For those trying to remediate the devices (44/169, 26%), a
small proportion did not experience any problem at all (21%).
These ﬁgures are in line with those found by Bouwmeester et
al [8]. For those facing some difﬁculties, the main problem
was too much technical knowledge and skill requiring them to
understand (20/44, 46%), resonating with the earlier ﬁnding
of the participants’ lack of skill and knowledge to ﬁx the
devices. The remaining reasons were “insufﬁcient support
from ISP” (31%), “friends and family” (30%), and “device
makers” (25%).
5.3
Keeping IoT secure
5.3.1
Individual triggers
We ask participants about triggers that would make them
aware of IoT security and privacy or that would want them
to keep their devices secure. The largest proportion selected
“watching/reading news/stories about past attacks on IoT de-
vices” (53%) followed by “direct experiences of IoT attacks”
(47%). Subsequent triggers on “seeing advertisements that
educate people about the dangers of IoT devices” (37%),
“hearing a close friend or family member talking about the
dangers of IoT” (34%), “being told about the dangers of IoT
at school or work” (23%), and “watching TV shows or celebri-
ties talk about the dangers of IoT” (20%). The proportion test
determined that the observed proportions were statistically
signiﬁcant (χ2 =409.02, d f =7, p<0.001).
Findings from the interviews also helped us to understand
how media exerted inﬂuence on participants. From one partic-
ipant: “Well, I am concerned about X [home assistant device].
I’ve heard on the Internet news that people have had their
credit card details stolen, so I think we have to be very careful
about security. I had never been concerned about security
before, but when I heard about such security cases, I started
to feel scared little by little [P8].”
5.3.2
Views of other stakeholders
We examine how individuals perceived how other stakehold-
ers are doing their jobs in securing IoT. Overall, participants
in the survey feel ambivalent about how other stakeholders
are taking sufﬁcient responsibility in keeping IoT secure. The
( ˜X) and (Mo) for the rating of all stakeholders are “Neutral”
(Figure 5).
Businesses who use IoT devices
Government
ISPs
Individuals who use IoT devices
IoT device manufacturers
Research institutions 
18
32
14
35
4
14
41
6
39
3
12
38
6
43
7
Strongly disagree
Disagree
Neutral
Agree
Strong agree
Figure 5: Participants’ view on to what extent stakeholders
have taken a sufﬁcient role in keeping IoT secure.
5.3.3
Consumer view on ISP initiatives
Participants in the survey wanted ISPs to establish various ini-
tiatives to help customers keep IoT secure. The most selected
initiatives concerned “ISPs monitoring suspicious trafﬁc to-
and-from IoT devices”, “notifying customers before blocking”
(55%) and “automatically block the trafﬁc” (54%), demon-
strating a strong desire for ISPs to take a proactive approach
to keep network supporting IoT secure (Table 3).
More than half of the participants in the user interviews
(13/20, 65%) were also keen on having ISPs monitor IoT
trafﬁc. For example “I am not familiar with the Internet, so if
I were asked ‘is it okay to block malicious trafﬁc?’, I would
answer ‘If it is dangerous, yes, please’[. . .] I don’t know how
to conﬁrm if the trafﬁc is dangerous or not, so I am grateful if
ISPs do that” [P6].
However, monitoring trafﬁc and notify or block suspicious
trafﬁc faces two major challenges. First, the legal framework
in Japan makes it difﬁcult for ISPs to monitor trafﬁc on a
large scale. The second challenge lies in the task of notifying
customers; the difﬁculties in reaching customers is one major
bottleneck for the ISPs participating in the NOTICE initiative
(Section 4.2.3).
Table 3: Participant support for ISP incentives
Incentive
n
%
1. Monitor suspicious com. from IoT devices and notify customers.
55
2. Monitor suspicious com. from IoT devices and automatically block
it.
54
3. Notify users about important software/ﬁrmware router updates.
43
4. Set appropriate security settings on devices before shipping.
36
5. Have a call center where users can easily consult about security.
35
6. Be transparent about how ISPs protect users’ communication and
personal data.
35
7. Provide online service to help users repair compromised devices.
32
8. Provide home visit service to repair compromised devices.
22
9. Educate users about the potential risks of using IoT.
22
328 participants total. The observed proportions among the incentives were statistically
signiﬁcant (x2 =344.21, d f =9, p<0.001).
5.3.4
Willingness to pay (WTP) ISPs for IoT security
ISPs have an opportunity to offer services to consumers to
help them secure their IoT devices. Based on the interviews
and further discussions, we explore four different potential
services: Monitoring IoT and notifying consumers of suspi-
cious activity, providing remote support for IoT devices, home
visits for technical assistance, and a bundle services of all the
previous options. Table 4 summarises our analysis, breaking
it down by age groups and gender.
Table 4: Willingness to pay ISPs for IoT Security services
Monitor & notify Remote assistance
Home visit
Bundle service
%̸=0
µ
σ
%̸=0
µ
σ
%̸=0
µ
σ %̸=0 µ
σ
overall** 69
1094 61 665**
58 1085** 1802 73 1226 1976
18–24** 74 1106* 1617 66 931*
59 1220* 1820 74 1259 1753
25–34** 67
1070 56
1180
682** 1187 67 1044 1737
35–60** 64
818
59 569**
60 1194* 1855 70 1332 2179
>60**
385*
65 520**
61 1235* 2140 81 1264 2172
r=−0.16**
r=−0.092*
r=0.029
r=−0.0053
Male**
599
1062 58 568**
53
992** 1795 71 1175 1919
Female** 70
1125 64 754**
63 1171** 1809 75 1273 2032
All numbers in Yen per month. %̸=0 is the percentage of people willing to pay >0.
The colors show the order of the mean (µ) for each of the services. The smallest mean
is given the lightest color, and the colors darken if there is a statistically signiﬁcant
difference between the current mean and the next largest mean, based on a one-sided
paired Wilcoxon rank test. This statistical test is further shown by **/* at the value of
the lower cell, showing p < 0.01/p < 0.05 conﬁdence respectively. If more than one
cell contains the same color, there is no statistical signiﬁcant variation between the
means for these services. For the analysis by age, Pearson’s r indicates the correlation
between age and willingness to pay. As before, **/* indicates statistical signiﬁcance
with p<0.01/p<0.05.
Overall, almost all participants would be willing to pay for
some service. WTP is decreasing with age in Japan; however,
this appears to be ’U’ shaped, where the 60+ group is con-
sistently the least willing group. Women are willing to pay
statistically signiﬁcantly more than men for most services.
The proportion of customers willing to pay anything as
well as the absolute amounts participants are willing to pay
are promising. They support the ﬁndings from Rowe and
Wood [38] who found customers in the US were willing to
pay ISPs to improve cybersecurity. However, feedback from
the 2nd Japan ISP workshop indicates that the amount that
participants are willing to pay is too low for ISPs to cover the
costs of providing the service (Section 4.3.2). This perhaps
then hints at a lack of commodiﬁcation of IoT monitoring and
remediation services in Japan.
5.3.5
Consumer view on IoT device makers
Participants ﬁrst and foremost want IoT device makers to
make secure devices (59%), supporting the ﬁndings from user
interviews where half of the participants wanted “secure by
default” IoT devices (10/20, 50%). The second most selected
choice was regular software/ﬁrmware updates (53%) which
is similar to securing IoT devices.
These top-ranked measures clearly indicate that consumers
believe IoT security is the manufacture’s responsibility. More
user-centered incentives such as “providing a repair service”,
“call center support” and “help in stores” rank bottom (32%,
38% and 31%).
5.3.6
Consumer view on government
We explore with the participants several possible measures by
governments to secure IoT. Here “changes to the law to allow
ISPs to monitor and block suspicious Internet trafﬁc” ranked
top with 62%. “More stringent IoT regulations” ranked 2nd,
“arresting cybercriminals” 3rd, and “raising awareness about
the dangers of IoT” ranked 4th.
The proportion test determined that the observed pro-
portions among the measures were statistically signiﬁcant
(χ2 =339.67, d f =5, p<0.001).
User interviews allowed us to understand some of the ra-
tionales for individuals’ keen interest for the government to
tighten the law and regulation around IoT; over half of par-
ticipants want governments to undertake such initiatives. For
example: “I am concerned about regulation. If we don’t have
any regulation, people do as they like, and personal informa-
tion may be leaked, so I want them [government] to make
proper regulation” [P5]. It should be noted, however, that
users may not be aware of all of the implications of a new
law and that these results may overestimate support for such
changes as the questions were focused primarily on the bene-
ﬁts.
Discussion: Lessons learned
Our study provides several useful insights to various stake-
holders keen to promote the safety of the IoT ecosystem.
These insights are based on our analysis of our ISPs question-
naire, both ISPs workshops, the user interviews and the user
survey.
6.1
Macro socio-technical challenges
Our multi-stage methodology has made it obvious that indi-
vidual actors are almost powerless to improve IoT security by
themselves, as the following challenges demonstrate.
6.1.1
Keeping IoT secure is not a priority for ISPs and
individuals
The ﬁrst important lesson is that despite ISPs and individuals’
concerns about the security and privacy risks of IoT, they
do not prioritise the need to secure IoT. For individuals, this
lesson supports the view from research in human factors
in security which posits that security is not a primary but
a secondary task [39, 48]. For ISPs, their core business is
providing Internet service and so it is understandable that
securing the IoT ecosystem is not their priority, although
doing so has its merits. This lesson is crucial; it highlights
the importance of implementing appropriate incentives to
encourage ISPs and individuals to act to keep IoT secure.
6.1.2
Stakeholders in the IoT ecosystem need to work in
tandem to secure IoT
Our study shows that an effort to keep the IoT ecosystem
secure is profoundly complex. Although ISPs and individuals
are key in securing IoT, it is evident that they cannot do this
alone. Other stakeholders, particularly device-makers and
government, also have an important role to play and need to
take their shares of responsibilities.
This is certainly easier said than done, as stakeholders like
to blame others for existing issues, at least among the ISPs
and individuals examined in this study. For example, ISPs feel
that device makers and individuals do not sufﬁciently secure
IoT devices. Individuals want ISPs to take some initiatives to
secure IoT. They want their trafﬁc to be monitored and have
malicious trafﬁc from IoT devices blocked, but the ISPs in
Japan are not able to do so unless the government amends the
current law. To tackle these entangling problems, a collabora-
tive effort from relevant parties is a sound approach. It will
not be easy for it requires commitments and enormous effort.
To a certain extent, NOTICE in Japan has set an example of
this approach. The initiative is not perfect; it faces numer-
ous obstacles as shown in this study. However, the initiative
demonstrates that a collaborative effort from key stakeholders
in the IoT ecosystem is not impossible.
6.1.3
ISPs play an important role in keeping IoT secure
but it is an uphill battle
ISPs mostly agree that they are responsible for various ac-
tivities in keeping IoT secure and feel that they have made
contributions, especially in detection, notiﬁcation, and reme-
diation activities. This endeavor is not without challenges
considering the many internal and external barriers the ISPs
are facing. Asking ISPs to do more, such as establishing var-
ious initiatives that individuals want from ISPs will be an
uphill battle.
Implementing incentives is key to encouraging ISPs to
act. Internally, most ISPs believe that acquiring technology
to identify compromised IoT devices in their network and
obtaining executive and staff buy-in are key. Convincing exec-
utive is often not easy, especially if IoT risks (or cybersecurity
risks in general) are not well understood at the board level.
Proactive management of cybersecurity risks at this level is
one idea to overcome this difﬁculty [12].
Externally, ISPs want several incentives from other stake-
holders. Implementing these external incentives are largely
beyond the ISPs’ control but the ISPs, as a community, can
take a proactive approach and inﬂuencing it to happen. For
example, starting a conversation with lawmakers about the
possibility of changing the law to allow ISPs to monitor and
block malicious IoT trafﬁc, and essentially set up a walled
garden. The more challenging issue is that even if ISPs are
allowed to offer this service, there is little economic incen-
tive from customers. Their willingness to pay ISPs for IoT
security services is too low for the ISPs to offer the service
and increasing individuals’ WTP is hard as we discuss in the
next lesson. This is where government subsidies could be
tremendously helpful, until ISPs can achieve economies of
scale from offering such service.
6.1.4
Individuals expect more and should be asked to
do less to secure IoT
Like ISPs, individuals also wanted several other stakeholders
to act to keep IoT secure. The majority of them in both coun-
tries want ISPs to monitor and block malicious trafﬁc to and
from IoT devices and want IoT device makers to make IoT
devices secure.
However, individuals are not willing to pay much for in-
creased security. The amount that participants in Japan are
willing to pay ISPs for IoT security service is not enough to
convince ISPs to want to offer the service. A large proportion
of participants do not want to pay to enhance security service
on IoT devices either, suggesting device makers have to ab-
sorb the cost of implementing security on IoT devices. This
suggests that individuals do not see these services as having a
great value to them.
Therefore, solutions relying less on individuals to keep IoT
secure are more promising. This does not mean we should
completely take individuals out of the equation; they do have
their fair share of responsibility—for example, acting to re-
mediate when notiﬁed that a device has been compromised.
But the conditions must be correct for them to act. They must
have motivation, knowledge, and support to do so.
Participants in this study identiﬁed being exposed to stories
about past attacks on IoT devices as a source of awareness
of IoT risks and motivation for keeping their devices secure.
It is in the interest of ISPs and governments to help make
individuals more aware of these incidents.
6.2
Government is at the heart of securing IoT
Although this study focuses on ISPs and individuals, our ﬁnd-
ings strongly suggest that government is at the core of driving
an effort to secure the IoT ecosystem. A long list of bar-
riers and incentives revolve around the government’s role
and responsibilities. Understandably, governments cannot im-
plement all of the identiﬁed measures. We propose that the
following incentives be prioritised as they were identiﬁed as
desirable by a large proportion of ISPs and individuals:
6.2.1
Allow ISPs to lawfully monitor and block suspi-
cious IoT trafﬁc.
Our study provided evidence that ISPs and individuals in
Japan want the Telecommunications Business Law Article 4
to change to allow ISPs to monitor and block suspicious IoT
trafﬁc.
This is in direct conﬂict with Japan’s strong emphasis on
data privacy, although privacy-preserving implementations
may be possible. However, the amendment of law to specif-
ically allow NOTICE to scan and identify vulnerable IoT
devices nationwide demonstrated that changing the law for
the purpose of cybersecurity is indeed possible. Further work
could explore support for such laws among individuals when
the wider implications (e.g., on privacy) are better understood.
6.2.2
Provide subsidy to ISPs.
Government subsidy is another item on the ISPs’ wish list.
A previous study suggested that this form of incentive is ef-
fective in encouraging ISPs to clean up malware infection on
computers [17]. Therefore, considering offering the subsidy
to keep IoT secure can also be a good idea. The advantages
and disadvantages of doing so need to be analyzed in greater
depth. This goes beyond the scope of this study but evidence
from our study is useful to demonstrate the advantage of this
incentive.
6.2.3
Increase the visibility of regulation around IoT.
ISPs and individuals want IoT device makers to design and
make secure IoT devices. Tightening the law and regulations
around IoT is one way to achieve this (e.g. the UK [19],
Australia [24]). Japan has also made some signiﬁcant progress.
Effective from 1st April 2020, all devices must be equipped
with sufﬁcient access control, the ability to prompt users to
change default passwords, software/ﬁrmware updates, and
security settings resilient to device rebooting [35].
Yet, many ISPs and participants in our study still want
device makers to make secure devices. Public perception will
take time to change if the new laws and regulations are indeed
sufﬁcient. Increasing the visibility of these changes will also
give some assurance to individuals about the safety of IoT
and boost the conﬁdence in the government’s handling of IoT
security.
6.2.4
Give public recognition to ISPs.
ISPs want public recognition for the contribution they make to
keeping IoT secure. This classic form of economic incentive
is not uncommon. However, it is rather surprising that one
in two ISPs in our study want it, considering praising and
giving recognition for good work is rare in Japanese culture.
The government needs to consider carefully the appropriate
forms of public recognition to be given to ISPs to avoid a
possible culture clash. A more subtle approach is likely to be
preferable.
6.3
Limitations
In the ISPs study, participants may not be fully engaged in
the pre-workshop survey or experience survey fatigue, though
we did not experience this during our pilot study. The number
of ISPs was also relatively small but we consider their mixed
demographic and statistically signiﬁcant results reasonably
sufﬁcient to represent the opinion of the ISP community in
Japan.
Our studies relied heavily on self-reporting. We iterated on
the surveys and interview guides to encourage accurate re-
porting by the participants and attempted to minimise leading
questions. Interviews were conducted online but took place
nearly a year after the pandemic started. Hence, we believe
that this method did not considerably affect the quality of the
interviews.
The CV method used to evaluate the WTP is also subjected
to criticism [9], but it is still being used in economic literature
today. For the econometric and statistical analysis, unravel-
ling correlation and causation is problematic and some of
the results may reﬂect inﬂuences from underlying variables.
Some ﬁndings can be hard to generalise, particularly those
concerning law and regulation which can vary vastly from
one country to another.
Conclusion
We examined the attitudes, barriers, and incentives for ISPs
and individuals to keep IoT secure, drawing on evidence from
Japan. Our ﬁndings show that although ISPs and individuals
have some concern about the security and privacy risks of
IoT, they do not prioritise the need to keep IoT secure. A
large number of the incentives and measures we identiﬁed are
external to ISPs and individuals; our study demonstrates that
improving the security of IoT will require support from other
key stakeholders in the IoT ecosystem.
The complexity of the effort to secure the IoT ecosystem
means that there are still many follow-on questions, such as
“What is the best approach for ISPs to increase executive
and staff buy-in to invest in keeping IoT secure?” and “What
interventions can increase participants’ ability and motivation
to remediate their devices?” Like the other stakeholders, the
research community has a role to play in this effort.