IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 2, January 2010 
ISSN (Online): 1694-0784 
ISSN (Print): 1694-0814 
M-Banking Security – a futuristic improved security approach  
 
Mrs Geeta S. Navale, Mrs Swati S. Joshi , Ms Aaradhana A Deshmukh 
 
 
Department of Computer Engineering , University of Pune, 
Sinhgad Technical Education Society’s, Smt. Kashibai Navale  College of Engineering 
Pune, Maharashtra State 411041, India 
 
 
Abstract 
In last few decades large technology development raised 
various new needs. Financial sector has also no exception. 
People are approaching all over the world to fulfill there 
dreams. Any sector needs to understand changing need of 
customer. In order to satisfy financial need for customer 
banks are taking help of new technology such as internet. 
Only problem remain is of security. The aim of this work 
is to provide a secure environment in terms of security for 
transaction by various ways. In order to improve security 
we are making use of “Steganography” technique in the 
way never used before. Task of enhancing security include 
construction of formula for both data encryption and also 
for hiding pattern. Server should not process any fake 
request hence concept of custom “Session id” and 
“Request id” is introduced. Implementation of such a 
security constraints in banking sector not only help to 
serve customer in better way but also make customer 
confident and satisfy. 
1. Introduction 
The importance of an Improving M-Banking Security is 
both to benefit the Bank as well as the customer. Using 
Improved M-Banking Security valid user will only access 
his bank account with the help of mobile phone which has 
internet facility & the bank application installed. The data 
exchange between user & bank is carried under protection 
of encryption & description technique. It makes use of 
images as cover to hide data with the help of 
steganography technique. 
Here we make use of total 4 different formulae i.e. 2 for 
steganography, 1 for encryption and 1 for session/request 
id. Only single key is sent along with image used in 
steganography (cover image) and used by all 4 formulae in 
interdependent manner. Key is variable i.e. changed every 
time and transferred in coded format in steganographed 
image so that it becomes difficult to get data even if key is 
found. 
 
 
2. Steganography 
 
The word steganography is derived from the Greek words 
steganos which means covered and graphie which means 
writing. Thus, steganography literally means "covered 
writing." Steganography has been used throughout history 
for secret communications. 
Instead of making use of some previous techniques of 
steganography, such as LSB method which are easy to 
detect, it uses two mathematical formulae.  To make use of 
steganography appropriate image format should be 
selected such as loss less image formats. There are two 
types of image formats: 
 
2.1. Lossy Image 
 
The image which is to be sent using internet is compressed 
so the bit pattern in the image will change such a format is 
called as lossy. This is not desirable in the image as we are 
hiding the data in image.  
Example .GIF, TIFF (.TIF & .TIFF), & BMP (.BMP 
.DIB) are compressed while sending over network so they 
can not used right now. 
 
2.2. Lossless Image 
 
The images that are not compressed while sending over 
the network and the bit pattern is not changed are called as 
lossless image. 
These images are suitable for hiding the data in image 
raster which will not modified while sending over the 
internet hence we have made use of this images to send 
the data. 
Example: Image files with extension .PNG are lossless. 
 
2.2.1 Cover (Decoy) 
 
Cover serves as medium to hide the message being sent. 
Making use of graphical images as cover solve many 
problems readily such as large availability of images, 
various formats of images and variation in size of image. 
 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 2, January 2010 
www.IJCSI.org 
Both server and end user application will communicate 
only by sending the cover image and then extracting data 
from it. 
Instead of making use of some previous techniques of 
steganography, such as LSB method which are easy to 
detect, we make use of two mathematical formulae. First 
formula will generate series of pixel number, with the help 
of key taken as input, in which data will hide. Second 
formula will generate the bit number for ‘n’ bit pixel in 
which one bit of data will hide.  
Only one key is required and need to be sent along with 
cover image which is used by first formula. While other 
formulae work in interdependent fashion i.e. result of one 
serves as input for second.  
In order to avoid the detection by comparison of modified 
image with original image, random pixel other than which 
contains data are also modified. 
 
2.2.2 Implementing steganography 
 
Steganography technique is no more secrete and also by 
making use various advanced tools, secrete messages in 
images can also be detected. Some concepts used in 
steganography makes detection somewhat easy such as 
sequential use of pixels to hide data, using same bit from 
‘n’ bit pixel to hide data e.g. LSB, availability of original 
image which is used to compare with modified image etc. 
Those loop holes can be avoided by various ways. Making 
use of mathematical formula is one of them. Here we 
make use on two mathematical formulae. First formula 
will generate series of pixel number in which data will 
hide. Second formula will generate the bit number for ‘n’ 
bit pixel in which one bit of data will hide. Using these 
formulae data will be randomly distributed in image 
instead of sequential and data hiding bit is also changed 
every time. Using custom images created by the owner (in 
this case bank) will help to avoid the comparison of the 
image. 
 
 
 
 
Fig.1 Image before hiding data 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2 Image after hiding data 
 
3. Data Encryption and Error checking 
It is necessary to protect the bank transaction even if the 
images is somehow modified or changed while in 
network. Concept of encryption and error checking is used 
to detection of changes in image. 
 
3.1 Use of encryption and decryption 
 
Encryption is a process of translating a message, called the 
Plaintext, into an encoded message. It helps to protect the 
original data from unauthorized access.  Decryption is 
process of translating encoded message back to plain text. 
Before 
embedding 
the 
data 
into 
image 
using 
steganography technique, data is first encrypted either by 
using simple technique like 0 converted to 1 or any 
standard algorithm. Such encrypted data is then used for 
steganography. 
 
3.2 Error checking 
 
This concept is somewhat similar to error checking used 
by network but limited only up to data. Basically if 
random changes are made in image then resultant 
extracted data from image may get changed which is 
undesirable. So error checking in this case means checking 
consistency of data in image after receiving by receiver. 
This can be achieved by carious ways. We can make use 
of simple techniques such as parity code or any other 
standard techniques. Data which is required for error 
checking should also be added to image along with 
original data.  
 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 2, January 2010 
ISSN (Online): 1694-0784 
ISSN (Print): 1694-0814 
4. Custom session and request id 
Now suppose data is encrypted and hidden in image and 
also successfully transmitted to server. But is it valid 
request? May be not! Here concept of session and request 
id introduces. These concepts are being already used in 
networking while sending and receiving packets. Making 
some changes in concept helps to improve security for our 
transaction too.  
 
4.1 Session id 
 
Session id is used to mark or indicate the session is 
initiated after the authentication while request id is used to 
make request to process transaction. Before user performs 
authentication, user application will initiate the connection 
with server. At that time itself the session id will be issued 
and it will be temporary. When authentication completes 
the transaction session id will be initiated. Session id will 
be constant throughout one session. Server will identify 
the authorized application’s session using session id. 
Session id will also be derived using formula which uses 
default key for first transaction. 
 
4.2 Request id 
 
To communicate with server every message hidden in 
image should have request id. This id will not be 
sequential fashion instead it will also be generated by 
formula. We know that key used in this process is variable 
i.e. changed every time for every message. So the formula 
for request id will generate id using key for previous 
transaction. 
At server, if session id found valid then request id is 
checked. If any request with incorrect request id will not 
be processed. As request id is not sequential next id will 
not be after equal interval but interval depends indirectly 
on key. This avoids the fake request to server. 
 
5. Data storage capacity of image 
 
 
Total data to transmit will in 4 part namely session id, 
request id, actual data and key. Consider the image of 
10000 from which 1000 pixels are used. Header will 
contain session id, request id and key. Header will be in 
predefined format. Let us consider that header is of 100 
bits.  
If the character is of 8 bit and 1 bit is stored in each pixel 
so total 8 pixels required for 1 character. 
So 900/8= 112 character in 900 pixels.  
So in image of size 300X300 i.e. 90000 pixels and 1/100 
of pixels used then minimum 100 characters can be stored 
with maximum security. 
6. Algorithm 
Including the features mentioned above the resultant 
algorithmic steps will be as follows: 
 
1. Key is decided for single transaction depending on 
current status. 
2. Using key the series of pixel number in which data 
will be hidden is derived. 
3. Original data in encrypted before being embedded in 
image. 
4. Take raster of image to hide data in pixel. Using 
steganography technique the encrypted data is 
embedded in cover image as per pixel locations given 
in step 2. 
5. Request id is generated for transaction depending on 
key. 
6. Finally image is transferred to destination with 
request id generated in step 5.  
 
Entire working of algorithm is show in fig. 3 
 
 
  
 
 
Fig. 3  Working of algorithm 
 
 
Now before processing request at server side following 
constraints are checked: 
 
1. First the session id is conformed. 
2. If found correct then expected request id and current 
request id is checked. 
3. Request id is correct then key is extracted from 
image and pixel number series is generated. 
4. Data is extracted from image using series in step 3. 
5. Data 
is 
checked 
for 
error 
if 
error 
found 
retransmission request is sent. 
6. If no error then data is decrypted and processed. 
 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 7, Issue 1, No. 2, January 2010 
www.IJCSI.org 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4 Rater format of image 
7. Conclusions 
Improved M-Banking Security allows user to operate there 
bank account with the help of mobile like never before. It 
helps both bank & user to keep there data safe & safe 
banking. It makes easy to perform various transactions in 
secured manner. Every year many user face problem 
related to security of there account and causing loss of 
valuable information and money too which can be 
prevented to some extent using combination of various 
techniques as explained in this short article. 
 
References 
[1] Steganography in digital media by Jessica Fridrich 
 
[2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steganography 
 
[3]Zone-H.org           
(http://www.infosecwriters.com/text_resources/pdf/Stegan
ography_AMangarae.pdf)