IJCA Special Issue on “Mobile Ad-hoc Networks” 
MANETs, 2010 
67 
 
Mobile Agent as an Approach to Improve QoS in 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Network
                          Rakesh Kumar,  
 
 
 
 
Dr. Mayank Dave 
  Assistant Professor, M. M. University, Mullana               
 Associate Professor, N.I.T. Kurukshetra 
 
         Haryana, India, 
 
 
 
 
 
    Haryana, India 
 
  
 
ABSTRACT 
Vehicular traffic is a foremost problem in modern cities. 
Huge amount of time and resources are wasted while 
traveling due to traffic congestion. With the introduction of 
sophisticated traffic management systems, such as those 
incorporating dynamic traffic assignments, more stringent 
demands are being placed upon the available real time 
traffic data. In this paper we have proposed mobile agent as 
a mechanism to handle the traffic problem on road. Mobile 
software agents can be used to provide the better QoS 
(Quality of Service) in vehicular ad hoc network to 
improve the safety application and driver comfort. 
 
Keywords: QoS, Mobile Agent, VANET 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
A Vehicular Ad hoc Network (VANET) is a form of 
wireless ad hoc network to provide communications among 
vehicles and nearby roadside equipments. It is emerging as 
a new technology to integrate the capabilities of new 
generation wireless networking to vehicles. The major 
purpose of VANET is to provide (1) ubiquitous 
connectivity while on the road to mobile users, who are 
otherwise connected to the outside world through other 
networks at home or at the work place, and (2) efficient 
vehicle-to-vehicle 
communications 
that 
enable 
the 
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). ITS includes a 
variety of applications such as cooperative traffic 
monitoring, control of traffic flows, blind crossing (a 
crossing without light control), prevention of collisions, 
nearby information services, and real-time detour routes 
computation. In this paper nodes and vehicles are used 
interchangeably.  
 
2. NETWORK ARCHITECTURES AND 
CHARACTERISTICS 
Wireless ad hoc networks generally do not rely on fixed 
infrastructure for communication and dissemination of 
information. VANETs follow the same principle and apply 
it to the highly dynamic environment of surface 
transportation. 
As shown in Fig. 1, the architecture of VANETs mainly 
falls within three categories: pure cellular/WLAN, pure ad 
hoc, and hybrid. 
VANETs 
may 
use 
fixed 
cellular 
gateways 
and 
WLAN/WiMax access points at traffic intersections to 
connect to the Internet, gather traffic information, or for 
routing purposes. The network architecture under this 
scenario is a pure cellular or WLAN structure as shown in 
Fig. 1(a). VANETs can combine both cellular network and 
WLAN to form the networks so that a WLAN is used 
where an access point is available and a 3G connection 
otherwise. 
 
 
  (a) Cellular/WLAN         (b) Ad Hoc               (c) Hybrid    
 
Figure 1: Network architectures for VANETs 
 
Stationary or fixed gateways around the sides of roads 
could provide connectivity to mobile nodes (vehicles), but 
are eventually unfeasible considering the infrastructure 
costs involved. In such a scenario, all vehicles and road-
side wireless devices can form a pure mobile ad hoc 
network (Fig. 1(b)) to perform vehicle to vehicle 
communications and achieve certain goals, such as blind 
crossing. 
Hybrid architecture (Fig. 1(c)) of combining infrastructure 
networks and ad hoc networks together has also been a 
possible solution for VANETs. Namboodiri et al. [9] 
proposed such a hybrid architecture, which uses some 
vehicles with both WLAN and cellular capabilities as the 
gateways and mobile network routers so that vehicles with 
only WLAN capability can communicate with them 
through multi-hop links to remain connected to the world. 
The hybrid architecture can provide better coverage, but 
also causes new problems, such as the seamless transition 
of the communication among different wireless systems. 
   
3. CHARACTERISTICS OF VANET 
In addition to the similarities to ad hoc networks, such as 
short radio transmission range, self-organization and self-
management, and low bandwidth, VANETs can be 
distinguished from other kinds of ad hoc networks as 
follows[15]: 
Highly dynamic topology: Due to high speed of 
movement between vehicles, the topology of VANETs is 
always changing. 
Frequently disconnected network: Due to the same 
reason, the connectivity of the VANETs could also be 
changed frequently. Especially when the vehicle density is 
low, it has higher probability that the network is 
disconnected. 
IJCA Special Issue on “Mobile Ad-hoc Networks” 
MANETs, 2010 
68 
 
Mobility modeling and predication: Due to highly mobile 
node movement and dynamic topology, mobility model and 
predication play an important role in network protocol 
design for VANETs. 
Geographical type of communication: Compared to other 
networks that use unicast or multicast where the 
communication end points are defined by ID or group ID, 
the VANETs often have a new type of communication that 
addresses geographical areas where packets need to be 
forwarded  
Various communications environments: VANETs are 
usually 
operated 
in 
two 
typical 
communications 
environments. 
In 
highway 
traffic 
scenarios, 
the 
environment is relatively simple and straightforward (e.g., 
constrained one-dimensional movement), while in city 
conditions it becomes much more complex. 
Sufficient energy and storage: A common characteristic 
of nodes in VANETs is that nodes have ample energy and 
computing power (including both storage and processing), 
since nodes are cars instead of small handheld devices. 
Hard delay constraints: In some VANETs applications, 
the network does not require high data rates but has hard 
delay constraints. 
Interaction with on-board sensors: It is assumed that the 
nodes are equipped with on-board sensors to provide 
information that can be used to form communication links 
and for routing purposes. 
 
4. MOBILE AGENT 
The term “mobile agent” was introduced by Telescript, 
which supported mobility at the programming language 
level. A mobile  agent  is  a  program, which  represents  a  
user  in  a  computer  network,  and  is capable of migrating 
autonomously from node to node, to perform some 
computation on behalf  of  the  user. Mobile  agents  are  
defined  as  objects  that  have  behaviour,  state,  and 
location [4]. Its tasks are determined by the agent 
application, and can range from online shopping to real-
time device control to distributed scientific computing  
Mobile agents are considered as a program, though they 
have some special properties that distinguish them from the 
standard programs: mandatory and orthogonal (optional) 
properties [5-7]. The mandatory properties are as follows: 
 Autonomy: agents operate without the direct intervention 
of humans or others, and have some kind of control over 
their actions and internal state. 
 Decision making: reactive or proactive decision making. 
Reactive decision making is implemented in some form of 
direct 
mapping 
from 
sensors 
input 
(sensing 
the 
environment) to actions using some rules. Proactive 
decision making may use Belief Desire Intention (BDI) 
architecture [6]. The beliefs of an agent are its model of the 
domain, its desires provide some sort of ordering between 
states, and its intentions are things it has decided to do.  
 Temporal continuity: agents are continuously running 
processes (either running active in the foreground or 
sleeping/passive in the background); 
 Goal oriented: an agent is capable of handling a task to 
meet its desired goal; 
The orthogonal properties are as follows: 
 Mobility: agents are capable of roaming around in an 
electronic network; 
 Communicative: agents interact with other agents and 
(possibly) humans via some kind of agent communication 
language. 
 Mutual: an agent should be capable of computing the 
desired tasks of the users/process by cooperating with other 
agents, sometimes it may reject execution of certain tasks, 
because (for instance) they would put an objectionable high 
load on the network resources or because it would cause 
damage to other users; 
 Learning: agents can learn the environment factors, user 
preferences, etc. and develop certain degree of reasoning to 
take intelligent decisions/actions that improves the 
efficiency of the system. 
 
4.1 Architectural overview & its components 
Mobile agent provides a new design model for applications 
as compared to the traditional client server model. First and 
foremost, the mobile agent blows apart the very notion of 
client and server. With mobile agents, the flow of control 
actually moves across the network, instead of using the 
request/response architecture of client-server.In effect, 
every node is a server in the agent network, and the agent 
moves to the location where it may find the services  it  
needs  to  run  at  each  point  in  its  execution  [8]. The 
various components of the architecture are: -  
 Agent Manager:  The Agent Manager provides the 
communication infrastructure using the TCP/IP stack for 
agent transmission.  It abstracts the network  interface  in  
order  that  agent  programmers  need  not  know  any  
network specifics nor need to program any network 
interfaces.  
 Security Manager: The Security Manager is responsible for 
identifying users, authenticating their agents, protecting 
server resources and ensuring the security and integrity of 
agents.  
 Persistence 
Manager: 
The 
Persistence 
Manager 
is 
completely transparent and maintains the state of agents in 
transit around the network. As a side benefit, it allows for 
the checkpoint and restart of agents in the event of system 
failure. 
 Event Manager:  The Event Manager handles the 
registration, posting and notification of events to and from 
agents.  The Event Manager can pass event notification to 
agents on any node in the network thus supporting agent 
collaboration. 
IJCA Special Issue on “Mobile Ad-hoc Networks” 
MANETs, 2010 
69 
 
 
Fig 1: Architecture of a mobile agent 
 Queue Manage:  The Queue Manager is responsible for the 
scheduling and possibly retrying the movement of agents 
between    systems which include maintenance of agent and 
persistence of agent state. 
 Directory Manager: The Directory manager provides 
naming service in the network. The Directory Manager may 
consult a local name service or may be set up to pass 
requests to other, existing name servers.   
 Service manager:  The Service manager provides the 
interface from agents to the services available at the various 
machines in the network. It comprises a set of programming 
extensions to provide access the native API‟s and 
interfacing. 
  
4.2 Life Cycle of a Mobile Agent & its life state log 
structure 
The mobile agent paradigm is based on the migrating 
workflow system model [9][10]. Workflow oriented life 
cycle model consists of five states, (creating, running, 
deleting, suspending, resuming) and a number of transition 
states. The workflow oriented life cycle model is shown in 
the fig. 2 
To accomplish its task, the mobile agent can transport itself 
to another server in search of the needed resource/service, 
spawn new agents, or interact with other stationary agents. 
Upon completion, the mobile agent delivers the results to 
the sending client or to another server. 
1. 
In the creating state, the agent is created but not 
activated yet. 
2. 
In the running state, the agent is running, 
performing actions and solve it purpose. 
3. 
In the deleting state, the agent is terminated. 
4. 
In the suspending state, the agent cannot run and 
still within the agent server. 
5. 
In the resuming state, the agent is travelling 
between two server instances. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 2: Life cycle of a mobile agent 
 
The life cycle of mobile agent begins at the moment when 
it is created. When PA is migrating from one host to 
another host in order to achieving its goals; and the PA 
returns its server on which it was created. Two or more 
than two states, in life cycle of PA, may be occurred at the 
different time or place. The mobile agent life state log 
structure can be defined in four tuple: 
 
4.3 Implementation strategies  
Agent mobility and naming are the two major issues in 
implementing the mobile agents in VANET. An agent 
should be uniquely named, so that its owner can 
communicate with or control it while it travels on its 
itinerary [11]. We have identified four implementation 
strategies: 
 
Sequential CS  
This is based on the traditional client-server paradigm. The 
client makes a request to the  first  server and after 
processing  the  reply, makes a  request  to  the  second  
server and so on, till the list of servers to be visited is 
exhausted. This strategy is illustrated in figure 3 (a).  
 
Sequential MA  
In  this  case  a  single MA moves  from  its  source  of  
origin  (client)  to  the  first  site (server) in its itinerary. It 
then moves to the next site and so on, till it has visited all 
the sites in its itinerary. This strategy is illustrated in figure 
3 (b).  
 
Parallel CS  
This also based on the client-server paradigm.  However, 
instead of sequential requests,  the  client  initiates    
parallel  threads  of  execution  where  each  thread 
concurrently  makes  a  request  to  one  of  the  servers  and  
processes  the  reply.  This strategy is illustrated in figure 3 
(c).  
Creating 
Running 
Suspend 
Deleting 
Resuming 
Active 
Suspend 
Terminating 
Dispatch 
Resuming 
IJCA Special Issue on “Mobile Ad-hoc Networks” 
MANETs, 2010 
70 
 
 
     Client 
    Server 
 
        Mobile agent 
 
     Message Exchange  
123456 Numbers along the arrows indicate the 
sequence of messages/ MA movement. 
 
Fig. 3 Implementation strategies 
  
 
Parallel MA  
In  this  case  the  client  initiates multiple MAs,  each  of 
which  visits  a  subset  of  the servers in the itinerary. The 
MAs then return to the client and collate their results to 
complete the task. This strategy is illustrated in figure 3 (d). 
 
5.  MANAGING QoS USING MOBILE AGENT  
Quality of service (QoS) is the measure of a service offered 
by the network to the user. The more deterministic network 
performance could be achieved with the mobile agents, so 
that information conceded by the network can be better 
delivered and network resources can be effectively utilized. 
A network or a service provider can put forward different 
kinds of services to the users. A service can be 
characterized by a set of requirements such as minimum 
bandwidth, maximum delay, maximum delay variance 
(jitter), and maximum packet loss rate. Quality of Service 
(QoS) management parameters are vital for facilitating 
multimedia services in a network. A typical QoS 
architecture should support the following:  configuration, 
prediction, and management of QoS at all the levels of 
abstraction (user, system and network level); management, 
control, and processing of a flow must be distinct activities; 
application must be transparent from establishment and 
management; asynchronous resource management of 
different components; and performance enhancement. An 
agent based QoS architecture do supports all these features.  
[12] 
QoS offers flexibility, scalability, efficiency, adaptability, 
software reusability and maintainability. 
 
 
Fig 4: Agent based QoS management. 
 
Agent-based schemes has several advantages as compared 
to traditional approaches: reduced latency, works in 
heterogeneous 
networks, 
reduced 
network 
traffic, 
encapsulates protocols, flexibility, adaptability, software 
reusability and maintainability, and facilitates the creation 
of customised dynamic software architectures [1,2,3]. 
However, mobile agent technology is still in its infancy and 
has certain problems that have to be resolved. Even though 
it is difficult to quantify these features, we explain how 
QoS is achieved through mobile agents. 
 Flexibility: The agents allow learning capabilities to be 
integrated in a natural way to support delay predictions, 
bandwidth predictions, and play out decision-making 
based on the host architecture and network loads.  
 Reusability: Mobile Agent software can be reused by 
different types of multimedia applications by making 
slight modifications to the software. It is possible 
because of autonomous operation of the agents in 
agent-based systems.  
 Maintainability: The software can be easily maintained 
since every agent of an agent-based system is 
developed on a modular approach. 
 Adaptability: Mobile agent can easily adapt the rapid 
changes in the network conditions (congestion/failure) 
and user requirements.  
 Efficiency: The use of a mobile agent increases network 
resource 
utilisation 
efficiency 
because 
of 
its 
adaptability to network and user requirements and 
exchange of minimal information during task execution 
and 
decision 
making 
with 
multiple 
resource 
information. 
 Scalability: The scalability can be achieved by using the 
mobile agent at a client to execute similar tasks of 
several users. The scheme uses only certain degree 
neighbour‟s information to compute the multiple paths.  
As according to literature, a lot of concepts have already 
been applied on VANET to provide better QoS to the user 
but still some of the issues are not yet answered and they 
are: - 
 
Lack of real-time traffic information. 
 
 Lack of access to travel information and 24 hour 
real-time alternate route information. 
 
 Better alternate route guidance. 
IJCA Special Issue on “Mobile Ad-hoc Networks” 
MANETs, 2010 
71 
 
 
 Lack of readily available transit information to 
increase ridership. 
Mobile agents can better address these issues in VANET. 
In this technique, we propose an intelligent agent based 
network that can provide five different types of messages in 
the form of agents: - 
1. 
Direction-Finding Agent (DFA) 
2. 
Portable Agent (PA) 
3. 
In Vehicular Agent (IVA) 
4. 
Observant Agent (OBA) 
5. 
Information Finding Agent (IFA). 
All vehicles moving in the network considered to be part of 
the network for traffic monitoring and control. The core of 
the system is creation of mobile agent of intelligent nodes. 
Agents are static nodes placed at intersections and along 
the streets, which maintains the database of traffic 
information and routing information. Road side sensors 
monitor the traffic situation and it is provided to nearby 
Agents.  
The network consists of mobile nodes in an ad-hoc 
environment. The Portable Agents (PA) are strategically 
placed such that PA is well connected to at least one 
neighboring PA. Desirable characteristics of PA node are: 
 
 Processing power to sustain distribution of 
database and node management. 
 
 More than average normalized link capacity 
 
 PA to PA and PA to mobile node connectivity 
and reliability 
 
 Large buffer capacity to maintain ubiquitous 
database and routing table. 
DFAs 
are 
responsible 
for 
route 
discovery, 
route 
maintenance and distribution of omnipresent database. 
Portable Agent keeps the route information and presence 
information. Each DFA finds the path to neighboring DFAs 
using PAs. PAs collect network behavior information 
which contain network resources like bandwidth and buffer 
availability at a node and pass it to a DFA. The next task is 
to form routing table at DFA node. To form routing table, 
paths from a DFA node to its neighbors are established. 
Path discovery is carried out by PAs. A DFA node sends 
Forward Portable Agents (FPAs) in network to discover the 
paths between itself and neighboring DFAs. Since any 
DFA node can be connected to nearest DFA node within 
maximal number of hops. This avoids flooding. Between 
each pair of unique DFA node, many paths are discovered 
and all paths are recorded in routing table. Algorithm 1 
explains working of APA. 
Algorithm 1. Advance Portable Agent (APA) 
If (hop count== 1) then,  
    Mobile agent is deleted 
else 
    if DFA node reached to next node then 
           Convey all the collected information to DFA, 
i.e., information regarding path followed and 
resources available on that path. 
Create 
Reverse 
Mobile 
Agent 
with 
path 
information. 
    else 
Decrease the hop count of mobile agent 
Collect the network information needed for routing 
& submerge the mobile agents to neighbor nodes. 
 end if 
Working of RPA is explained in Algorithm 2. 
Algorithm 2.  Reverse Portable Agent (RMA) 
if DFA node reached to next node then 
Convey all the collected information to DFA, i.e., 
information regarding path followed and resources 
available on that path to update routing table. 
Remove mobile agent. 
else 
Give all the information collected to node.  
Travel to next hop. 
end if 
In Vehicular Agent (IVA): IVA is static agent resides in 
vehicle which communicates with the DFA to acquire/ 
spread the relevant information. IVA collects the status 
(moving or stationary) and location information of vehicle 
from sensors equipped in a vehicle. 
Observant Agent (OA): OA is a mobile agent that travels 
around the network by creating its clones to propagate the 
decisive 
information 
during 
the 
critical situations. 
Examples of critical situation are accident, traffic jam, bad 
weather conditions, tracing a vehicle involved in crime or 
traffic rule violation etc. It also informs IVA and updates 
the vehicle database. OA is sent by DFAs to the vehicles 
moving in the network.  
Information Finding Agent (IFA): IFA travels in the 
network to search for the requisite information as desired 
by vehicle user. IFA is sent by the DFA in the network on 
the request issued by user or DFA itself to get traffic 
information. [11] 
 
7. Conclusion and Future Scope 
Mobile agent technology has been highlighted as a very 
interesting approach to build applications for mobile 
environments. However, it is hard to find practical 
applications with real prototypes and using the available 
mobile agent platforms. One reason is probably that such 
platforms have been developed with a fixed distributed 
environment in mind, and not considering the features that 
may be of special interest in a mobile environment (e.g., 
reliance against security threats, adaptation to the network 
technology, and service/node discovery). Mobile agent 
scales effectively as the size of the data to be obtained 
increases. 
IJCA Special Issue on “Mobile Ad-hoc Networks” 
MANETs, 2010 
72 
 
We hope that future research and development efforts will 
eventually lead to consolidate a good relationship between 
mobile agents and mobile devices and it will also 
concentrate on the real time aspects. 
 
8. References 
[1] Chess, D., Harrison, C., and Kershenbaum, A.: 
„Mobile agents: are they a good idea?‟. IBM Research 
Division, T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown 
Heights, New York, March 1995. 
[2] Lange, D.B., and Oshima, M.: „Seven good reasons 
for mobile agents‟, Commun. ACM, 1999, 42, pp. 88–
89. 
[3] S.S. Manvi and P. Venkataram “Mobile agent based 
approach for QoS routing” The Institution of 
Engineering and Technology 2007, 1, (3), pp. 430–
439. 
[4]  Alfonso Fuggetta, Gian Pietro Picco and Giovanni 
Vigna,    "Understanding Code Mobility ",   IEEE 
Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 24(5), 
1998. 
[5] S.S. Manvi, P. Venkataram, “Applications of agent 
technology in communications: a review”, Computer 
Communications 27 (2004), 1493–1508. 
[6] G. Weiss, Multiagent systems a modern approach to 
distributed artificial intelligence, MIT Press, Boston, 
2001. 
[7] R. Chadha, G. Lapiotis, S. Wright, “Policy-Based 
Networking”, 
IEEE 
Network 
special 
issue, 
March/April 2002, Vol. 16 No. 2, guest editors. 
[8] Danny B. Lange and Mitsuru Oshima, “Seven Good 
Reasons for Mobile Agents ", Communications of 
ACM, vol. 42, no. 3, March 1999. 
[9] Shinichi Motomura, Takao Kawamura, Kazunori 
Sugahara, “Persistency for Java based Mobile Agent 
Systems”, Proc. Third International Conference on 
Internet and Web Applications and Services. Pp. 470-
475,2008,  
[10] Yang Gong-ping, Zeng Guang-zhou, ”Mobile Agent 
Life State Management”, IMACS Multi-conference on 
Computational Engineering in Systems Applications 
(CESA), 2006, Beijing, China 
[11] Neeran M. Karnik and Anand R. Tripathi “Design 
Issues in Mobile-Agent Programming Systems”, IEEE 
Concurrency, July-September,   1998 pp 52-61. 
[12] T. Bheemarjuna Reddy, I. Karthigeyan, B.S. Manoj, 
C. Siva Ram Murthy “Quality of service provisioning 
in ad hoc wireless networks: a survey of issues and 
solutions” Ad Hoc Networks VOL. 4, 83–124, (2006). 
[13] Chess, D., Harrison, C., and Kershenbaum, A.: 
„Mobile agents: are they a good idea?‟. IBM Research 
Division, T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown 
Heights, New York, March 1995. 
[14] Sadaf 
Momeni, 
Mahmood 
Fathy, 
“VANET's 
Communication”, IEEE 2008. 
[15] Naishadh K. Dave and Vanaraj B. Vaghela “Vehicular 
Traffic Control: A Ubiquitous Computing Approach”, 
IC3 2009, CCIS 40, pp. 336–348, 2009. 
[16] O. Urra, S. Ilarri and E. Mena, “Agents Jumping in the 
Air:Dream or Reality?”, , Part-I LNCS 5517, pp.627-
634, IWANN 2009