© EUROSIS-ETI 
Mobile Advertisement in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 
 
Ciprian Dobre and George Cristian Tudor 
Department of Computer Science 
University POLITEHNICA of Bucharest 
Spl. Independentei, 313, Bucharest 
Romania 
E-mails: ciprian.dobre@cs.pub.ro, george.tudor@cti.pub.ro 
 
 
 
 
KEYWORDS 
Advertisement, data dissemination, wireless environment, 
modeling and simulation, vehicular ad-hoc networks. 
 
ABSTRACT 
Mobile Advertisement is a location-aware dissemination 
solution built on top of a vehicular ad-hoc network. We 
envision a network of WiFi access points that dynamically 
disseminate data to clients running on the car’s smart device. 
The approach can be considered an alternative to the static 
advertisement billboards and can be useful to business 
companies wanting to dynamically advertise their products 
and offers to people driving their car. The clients can 
subscribe to information based on specific topics. We 
present design solutions that use access points as emitters for 
transmitting messages to wireless-enabled devices equipped 
on vehicles. We also present implementation details for the 
evaluation of the proposed solution using a simulator 
designed for VANET application. The results show that the 
application can be used for transferring a significant amount 
of data even under difficult conditions, such as when cars 
are moving at increased speeds, or the congested Wi-Fi 
network causes significant packet loss. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) are formed by adding 
information and wireless communication capabilities to 
transport infrastructure and vehicles. Such systems have the 
potential to increase safety and comfort of drivers (Tarnoff, 
et al, 2009). ITS applications can lead to cooperative 
collision warning, to congestion-avoidance and the finding 
of faster and safer routes for drivers. A different category is 
represented by the non-safety (comfort) applications. 
Examples include Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) (Lee, et 
al, 2008), car to home communications (Dkesson&Nilsson, 
2002), 
travel 
and 
tourism 
information 
distribution 
(O'Grady&O'Hare, 2004), etc.  
In this paper we present a solution for the dissemination of 
information to interested drivers using ITS capabilities. 
Mobile advertisement over VANET is an application that 
takes 
advantage 
of 
short-range 
wireless 
network 
communication for making recommendations based on 
location-awareness. It uses Access Points (AP) as emitters, 
constantly sending messages to all vehicles within range. 
The main advantage of using short-range wireless 
technology for this application is that it can exploit the 
natural locality of the signal. The information is received by 
vehicles located within the neighboring area. Therefore, by 
using a short-range signal, the difficult task of finding 
vehicles within a geographical region is avoided.  
Using WiFi communication is difficult because of the cars’ 
speeds. Cars enter and leave the wireless transmission range 
of an AP at all times, so the window for transmitting the data 
is low. However, by directly incorporating data into the 
WiFi beacons we manage to solve this. We show results 
proving the capability of such an approach to cope with 
increased car’s speeds.  
The messages range from commercial advertisements to 
information about road conditions or traffic congestion. The 
client application runs on the driver’s smart phone, and it 
receives messages encapsulated in the beacon data sent over 
the wireless protocols by neighboring access points. Based 
on the driver’s specific preferences, the client is capable to 
filter and recommend specific information to the end-user.  
Such an application has the potential to replace the static and 
more expensive advertisement traditional billboard panels. 
There are advantages for both the driver, as well as the 
business provider. The driver is presented with less 
information, which is more relevant to its specific needs. 
The business provider advertises its products in a more 
efficient way. Typical scenarios include a restaurant 
dynamically advertising its menu or a store advertising its 
discounts. Or the administrator of a road decides to do some 
maintenance work on a specific portion. In this case he/she 
could place APs at locations leading up to the affected area, 
informing drivers of the hardened driving conditions and 
possibly offering advice about alternative routes. 
In this paper we present the architecture and implementation 
details of the proposed solution. We present details 
describing the use of APs for mobile advertising. We outline 
the obstacles on the implementation and proof of the 
theoretical 
expected 
performance. 
We 
also 
present 
evaluation results of the proposed solution using modeling 
and simulation. For that we used a simulator equipped with a 
realistic mobility model, with streets, routes and various 
driver behaviors, as well as having a network model 
including wireless communication protocols adequate for the 
use in vehicle ad-hoc networks. 
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 
presents the solutions for mobile advertisement in vehicular 
ad-hoc networks. In Section 3 we present implementation 
details of a prototype solution. In Section 4 we present 
experimental results that demonstrate the capabilities of the 
presented solution. Finally, in Section 5 we give conclusions 
and present future work. 
© EUROSIS-ETI 
2. MOBILE ADVERTISING USING ACCESS POINTS 
 
The use of access points for implementing mobile 
advertisement is appealing because the wireless signal is 
confined to a specific area. In this case the information is 
transmitted only to vehicles located in the same geographic 
region with the AP. In many cases the information is of 
interest only to vehicles situated in the vicinity of the data 
source. The information might be, for example, the 
advertisement of a local sale or a special discount in a 
restaurant. The solution does not require a discovery phase, 
and, therefore, it reduces the time needed for the propagation 
of the information.  
 
Figures 1: System architecture. 
In addition, we wanted to develop a solution that can work 
in a mobile dynamic environment formed between the AP 
and vehicles constantly changing their positions. According 
to the 802.11 standard (which regulates the use of wireless 
local area networks), the nodes must establish a connection 
prior to any actual communication (Wong, et al, 2006). In 
case of the proposed mobile dissemination solution this is 
not a viable solution. In this case vehicles are moving at 
relatively high speeds (50-60 km/h in a typical urban 
scenario) and, considering that most APs have a limited 
range of transmission (around 100 m), the cars would not 
stay in the communication area long enough for a connection 
to be established, let alone send the required information. 
Also, a standard AP can only support a limited number of 
connections at one time, thus causing problems in case of 
dens traffic. Vehicles would have to send packets back to the 
access point, thus leading to possible packet collisions and 
increased packet loss ratio. Any vehicle could only receive 
messages from one AP at a time. 
Because establishing a connection between nodes is not a 
viable solution, we had to work around the limitations of the 
802.11g standard. We propose using beacon frames for 
carrying the data. According to the wireless protocol, such 
beacon frames are periodically sent by APs to advertise their 
presence over the network. These frames can be modified to 
carry additional information besides the regular network 
control parameters. 
Figure 1 illustrates the general design of the mobile 
advertising system. Messages to be broadcasted are managed 
by a mobile advertisement server, which can be connected to 
several access points. The server passes the messages to the 
APs, which broadcast them over the wireless network. 
Vehicles within each AP’s wireless transmission range, 
equipped with wireless devices, receive and filter messages. 
Based on the user’s preferences, a mobile client can further 
discard or present the message to the driver. For beacon 
collision avoidance we consider solutions described in 
(Sgora, et al, 2009).  
The business provider can dynamically change the 
advertisement message sent by each individual AP. It can 
also dynamically manage operational parameters such as the 
beacon interval, or the advertised wireless network name. 
Modifying the beacon interval is useful for creating an 
energy efficient system. As presented in the next Section, 
data throughput is proportional with the interval between 
beacon frames. A smaller interval can result in more data 
being transmitted. For power saving the advertising server 
can set the beacon interval to a higher or smaller value, 
depending on the size of the message being transmitted. 
The name of the wireless network is used by cars to identify 
the originator of the received message. In standard wireless 
networks this parameter should uniquely identify an AP and 
is set by default to the MAC value. For our solution we took 
advantage of this field to increase the system’s performance. 
If more APs share the same network name a vehicle passing 
within range could not differentiate between them. To the 
vehicle it would appear as if it receives a constant flow of 
information from a single source. Considering that the 
wireless range of an access point is limited to about 100 
meters, this technique can be useful for increasing the area 
over which a message is transmitted. A vehicle can 
seemingly roam from one AP to another without knowing 
that the source of the message changed by placing multiple 
APs in such a way that no gap in the wireless signal exists 
between them.  
The solution is based on a push model of information 
delivery. The emitter keeps sending data without expecting a 
response. The idea is to overload the 802.11g beacon frames 
with additional information that can be interpreted and used 
by the receivers. The beacon frames are sent by APs at fixed 
intervals to make their presence known over a Wi-Fi 
network. These frames are received by all clients in range, 
regardless whether they are connected or not to the AP. A 
client can also simultaneously receive beacon frames from 
multiple APs. For that it periodically scans all channels to 
receive incoming messages encapsulated within beacons. 
The custom information is added to a beacon frame by 
altering its structure and overriding one or more fields. 
There are three fields that can be used (Wong, et al, 2006). 
The SSID field carries the name of the wireless network. It 
has a length of 32 bytes. The advantage of using this field is 
its relatively easy way of manipulation. Most commercial 
APs provide a method for setting the SSID field. Clients 
running different operating systems can get the SSID from a 
beacon directly in user-space, without requiring specially-
adapted drivers for the wireless card. The disadvantage is 
that beacons carrying useful information would overlap with 
other beacons sent from access points not participating in 
our solution. Clients might be presented with information 
© EUROSIS-ETI 
about fake networks from non-participating APs. The 
BSSID field (6 bytes long) is the unique identifier of the AP. 
This overcomes the limitation of using the SSID field, but 
the small size is not practical for our application. Finally, the 
Vendor Specific field can also be used. The 802.11 standard 
allows AP vendors to add 253 bytes of information at the 
end of a beacon frame. The use of this field requires 
updating the AP’s operating system and network stack to 
add vendor-specific information dynamically in the beacon. 
The wireless network card driver on the client’s side must 
also be updated to allow reading this field and passing the 
information to user-space applications. However, vendor 
specific extensions for reading the fields are currently being 
developed for modern mobile operating systems (Android, 
iOS) (Berg, 2009).  
The alternatives are not enough to transport enough data in 
the wireless beacon. Therefore, we further considered 
solutions to send larger chunks of data. We turn to splitting 
the messages in smaller data chunks that can fit inside a 
beacon frame. Each frame would then contain a fragment of 
the message. Each fragment receives an index. The first and 
last fragments also contain special delimiters for the limits of 
the message. The AP then keeps sending the message in a 
loop. If a client happens to lose the beacon message because 
of the outside interference, it simply notices that the received 
fragments are not sequential. In this case it can either discard 
the fragments or, if possible, reconstitute the message from a 
second loop of the same message.  
In our experiments we considered the Vendor Specific field 
of being capable of carrying the information. It is the one 
that offers an acceptable bandwidth for fast information 
transmission. From the 253 bytes available in this field, we 
use 3 bytes for control and chunk ordering and the other 250 
for transmitting the data. The proposed structure of this 
custom Vendor Specific field is presented in Figure 2. 
 
Figures 2: Vendor Specific fields. 
The Sequence Number field is two bytes in length and 
contains the index inside the message for the currently 
transmitted data fragment. If we were to use only one byte 
for this field, our message size would have been limited to 
256 fragments of 250 bytes each, leaving us with a 
maximum message size of 62.5 KB.  
The First/Last Tag field contains 1 for the first fragment of 
the message and 2 for the last fragment. All other fragments 
set this field to 0. Finally, the Data field contains the custom 
data. 
An AP periodically sends beacon frames to make its 
presence known over the wireless network. Under normal 
operation these frames carry only the communication 
parameters advertised by the AP. The default interval 
between beacons for most APs is set to 100 ms. The time 
interval offers a good balance between power consumption 
and responsiveness when scanning the medium for 
discovering the AP. The interval can be manually set to any 
value between 1 ms and 65535 ms. In our experiments we 
considered a beacon interval of 10 ms. 
The wireless transmission range depends on the 802.11 
version and the AP’s producer. Several companies claim 
outdoors ranges of up to 150 m using the 802.11g protocol. 
However, we used a 90m range, based on previous research 
results (Singh, et al, 2002). Beyond this limit all packets are 
assumed lost. Nonetheless, the declared maximum range is 
that at which the AP is designed to be able to maintain a 
relatively stable connection with a client. However, we do 
not need establishing a connection, so the real distance at 
which beacons are received might be greater, even though 
the loss ratio increases dramatically with the distance.  
Based on the assumed figures, we evaluated the maximum 
amount of information that can be sent. We used a simple 
model, with an AP on a road, and several cars (see Figure 3). 
 
 
Figures 3: Car approaching an AP. 
Considering a speed limit of 50 km/h for a vehicle travelling 
in the city, the maximum time it takes before it reaches the 
access point is equal to 
s
h
km
m
5.6
)
/
/(
=
. 
A car would have to receive the message in less than 6.5 
seconds, before reaching the AP’s position. Considering a 
beacon interval of 10 ms, the AP is able to send 100 packets 
every second. In this case the vehicle can receive maximum 
650 packets before reaching the AP’s location. By adding 
250 bytes of data in every packet, the amount of information 
is 
KB
package
bytes
packages
/
650
=
⋅
. So, 
the maximum amount of data that can be transmitted before 
the car reaches the AP is 158 KB, and the total amount of 
data the car is able to receive before completely exiting the 
transmission range of the AP is 316 KB. 
 
3. IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS 
 
We evaluated the mobile advertisement solution using 
modeling and simulation. We implemented the solution as an 
extension on top of a realistic traffic simulator called VNSim 
(Gainaru, et al, 2009).  
VNSim is a generic VANET traffic simulator incorporating 
microscopic 
and 
macroscopic 
traffic, 
mobility 
and 
networking models to accurately evaluate the performance 
of a wide range of VANET technologies. It is designed as a 
© EUROSIS-ETI 
realistic simulator for evaluating the performances of a wide-
range of VANET technologies, ranging from wireless 
networking protocols and dissemination strategies to 
applications being developed over VANETs.  
The simulator is implemented in Java and uses a synthetic 
mobility model that integrates both microscopic and 
macroscopic motion. Its mobility model is in charge of 
importing the map topology and building the dynamic of all 
vehicles. In addition, the simulator uses a wireless 
networking model, responsible with the simulation of the 
networking components and the communication protocols 
envisioned by a VANET system (see Figure 4). 
 
Figures 4: The architecture of VNSim. 
For evaluating the proposed Mobile Advertising solution, we 
extended VNSim with new components and capabilities. On 
top of the mobility and network models we added new 
components to simulate behavior and characteristic of APs 
and cars. Figure 5 illustrates how the mobile advertisement 
components are integrated with the VNSim simulator. For 
example, the engine of the simulator maintains a list of cars. 
We extended it also hold the APs involved in the simulation 
experiment. Both cars and APs are extension of the same 
base class CarRunningVITP (Dikaiakos, et al, 2005). The 
engine creates an instance of the car console and an instance 
of the statistics class. All the cars and the APs populate these 
classes directly. At the end of the simulation, the engine 
displays the statistics. 
 
Figures 5: Implementation details. 
The extended car receives beacon messages and handles 
them accordingly. In addition, we introduced a new type of 
message for caring mobile advertisement (the simulation of 
the proposed beacon message). The simulated car stores the 
received messages for a certain period of time. Each car 
maintains a hash map with the keys being the unique 
identifiers of the APs sending the messages and a structure 
holding the received information. When a car receives a 
beacon frame, it extracts the useful data, and, if it is a new 
fragment, it further stores it. 
Another component added in the simulation is an access 
point that sends message beacons. The position of the AP on 
the digital map is set by the user using the graphical user 
interface. The AP is initialized with default values set for 
beacon interval, message size and range, and it generates a 
random message to be sent. The user can specify various 
parameters for the AP, such as wireless transmission range, 
size of the transmitted messages, etc.  
To simulate a noisy environment we also added a function 
for randomly dropping packets sent by the AP. The user can 
specify a probability for the loss of packets.  
The output of the simulation experiment consists in the 
average time required to send a message, the number of 
message loops needed for a car to receive a complete 
information in a noisy environment, and the ratio of dropped 
and received messages.  
For the output we added a component that logs and displays 
statistical information. The statistics contain information 
about the APs (range, beacon intervals, message size, frames 
sent, complete loops and time running), about individual 
cars (completed messages, dropped messages, received 
frames, duplicate frames and lost frames) and general 
messaging information (total frames sent, total completed 
messages, frames received per car, frames lost per car etc.). 
 
Figures 6: The extended graphical user interface presenting a 
running experiment. 
We also added additional functionality to the graphical 
output of VNSim (Figure 6). We extended the interactive 
simulation mode and included a visual representation of the 
access points and other components used by the mobile 
advertisement application.  
4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
 
© EUROSIS-ETI 
We present evaluation experiments designed to determine 
the maximum throughput of the application. The scenario 
assumes an AP being placed on an open road, without any 
intersection nearby and without congested traffic. This 
represents ideal driving conditions in which cars move with 
relatively constant speed, without having to slow down or 
stop. The alternative would be to obtain artificially improved 
results using reduced car speeds, but this would extend the 
time cars are within wireless range of the AP. 
In the experiments the wireless transmission range of the AP 
was set to 90 m (and remained constant through the 
simulation experiment). The beacon interval was set to 10 
ms. In an experiment we assumed a 5% packet loss 
probability, and in another one the target was increased to 
10%. We also sent messages with sizes varying between 
16KB and 112KB.  
Under these conditions, we executed several experiments 
using increasing sizes for the messages to be transmitted. For 
each size we computed a “Message Loss Percentage”, which 
indicates the percentage of all cars that did not successfully 
receive the message. The cars moved with an average speed 
in the interval 60-70 km/h.  
Table 1. Evaluation results. 
Packet 
Loss 
Probability 
Message Size 
Message Loss 
5% 
16 KB 
0% 
5% 
32 KB 
0% 
5% 
48 KB 
3% 
5% 
64 KB 
29% 
5% 
80 KB 
58 % 
5% 
96 KB 
75% 
5% 
112 KB 
90% 
10 % 
16 KB 
0% 
10 % 
32 KB 
0% 
10 % 
48 KB 
8 % 
10 % 
64 KB 
58 % 
10 % 
80 KB 
80 % 
10 % 
96 KB 
93 % 
10 % 
112 KB 
100 % 
 
During these experiments we noticed that for messages 
smaller than 32 KB the message delivery percentage was 
100%, even in a transmission medium with only 10% packet 
loss probability. For messages exceeding 64KB, the ratio 
becomes unsatisfactory for our application.  
Figure 7 presents the results for the Message Loss. The 
ascending slope of the message loss percentage becomes 
clearer. We notice that, when increasing the medium packet 
loss probability, not only do performances drop, but they 
drop at a faster rate.  
 
Figures 7: Evaluation results. 
For message sizes of approximately 100 KB the messages 
are almost completely lost, especially in the case of a 
medium with 10% packet loss probability. The explanation 
for such a sudden drop in performance is found when 
examining the time required for a complete message to be 
sent and the time that a car running at 60-70 Km/h spends in 
the access point range.  
To exemplify the results, let’s consider a message of 112 
KB. The number of frames required to send the message 
(considering that one frame can hold up to 250 Bytes) is 459 
frames (112 KB / 250 B). The beacon interval was set to 10 
ms. Therefore, sending 459 frames would take 4.59 seconds 
(459 * 10 ms). The time it takes for a vehicle moving at 70 
Km/h to traverse the wireless transmission range of an AP 
(90 m) is 4.6 seconds (90 m / 70 Km/h). Therefore, it takes a 
vehicle 4.6 seconds to reach the AP, and it takes a message 
4.59 seconds to be completely sent. When the medium has a 
10% packet loss probability chances are that the message 
needs more than one loop to be successfully transmitted, but 
during the second transmission the car leaves the access 
point range. 
 
5. RELATED WORK 
 
The world-wide expansion of mobile networks placed 
mobile technology into the hands of millions of people. 
Innovative programs have been put in place to disseminate 
crucial health, social and political data over mobile devices 
and to use them to collect eyewitness reports and personal 
health information. Mobile phones can communicate across 
a variety of online platforms and networks, with high-end 
phones replicating the capabilities of desktop computers. 
The primary advantage of mobile data dissemination is in 
using handheld technology to directly reach the intended 
recipients. 
The problem of data dissemination was approached in many 
cases for the particular case of Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks.  
Numerous local incidents occur on road networks daily, 
many of which may lead to congestion and safety hazards. If 
vehicles can be provided with information about such 
incidents or traffic conditions in advance, the quality of 
driving can be improved significantly in terms of time, 
distance, and safety. An analysis of several solutions is 
presented in (Sutariya& Pradhan, 2010). 
© EUROSIS-ETI 
AdTorrent, an integrated system for search, ranking and 
content delivery in car networks, previously proposed the 
notion of Digital Billboards, a scalable “push” model 
architecture for ad content delivery (Nandan, et al, 2006). 
The mobility model for the urban, vehicular scenario can be 
used in conjunction with the analytical model for estimating 
query hit ratio by a system designer to determine the scope 
of the query flooding as a function of the available storage 
per vehicle for their application. 
Zhao et al (2007) propose a solution which considers 
information source (data center) to disseminate data to many 
vehicles on the roads. It is noted that periodically pouring 
data on the road is necessary since vehicles receiving the 
data may move away quickly, and vehicles coming later still 
need the data. Caliskan et al (2006) focuses on the 
decentralized discovery of parking places. The proposed 
model consists of communication between vehicles and 
fixed infrastructures named as parking automat and also 
between vehicles. 
Unlike previous solution, we propose an approach that takes 
advantage of short-range wireless network communication. 
As far as we know it is an idea different from previous 
solutions by at least: the ability to transfer data without 
establishing a connection beforehand and the fact that the 
information is confined to the geographical area in which it 
could be useful.  
 
6. CONCLUSIONS 
 
Mobile advertisement is an application developed on top of a 
wireless communication infrastructure that provides vehicles 
on the road with advertisement information related to their 
current location. The application can be useful to business 
companies because they can dynamically advertise their 
products and offers to more people driving their car. We 
presented a solution for implementing such a system, based 
on the idea of using access points as emitters for transmitting 
messages to wireless-enabled devices equipped on vehicles.  
Such a solution provides a practical and inexpensive 
approach for delivering information to vehicles with wireless 
devices. We presented the approach taken for disseminating 
information using the beacon frames available in the 802.11 
protocol suite. We also presented details about the 
implementation of the mobile advertisement components on 
top. We showed how the simulator can be used for 
evaluating such applications and showed how the mobile 
advertisement extended its functionality.  
The results of the performed experiments reveal that the 
mobile advertisement solution can transfer a significant 
amount of data even in difficult conditions, in which cars are 
moving at increased speeds, or when a congested Wi-Fi 
network causes significant packet loss. The evaluation 
results prove that people can more easily disseminate 
information and can easily discover data of interest using the 
infrastructure provided by a VANET environment. The 
performance does not have a large negatively affect on other 
communications in VANET. 
We are currently working on an implementation of the 
presented solution, using the Vendor Specific field of the 
802.11 protocol suite. The solution will be further evaluated 
in urban traffic scenarios, but we also plan to extend its 
applications 
to 
in-door 
context-aware 
dissemination 
approaches. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
 
The research presented in this paper is supported by national 
project: "TRANSYS – Models and Techniques for Traffic 
Optimizing 
in 
Urban 
Environments", 
Contract 
No. 
4/28.07.2010, Project CNCSIS-PN-II-RU-PD ID: 238. The 
work has been co-funded by the Sectoral Operational 
Programme Human Resources Development 2007-2013 of 
the Romanian Ministry of Labour, Family and Social 
Protection 
through 
the 
Financial 
Agreement 
POSDRU/89/1.5/S/62557.  
 
REFERENCES 
Berg, J.M. 2009. ‘WiFi Overview’. Last accessed March 02, 2011, 
from http://linuxwireless.org.  
Dikaiakos, M.D., S. Iqbal, T. Nadeem, and L. Iftode. 2005, ‘VITP: 
an information transfer protocol for vehicular computing’, 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks 2005, pp. 30-39. 
Dkesson, K.-P., and A. Nilsson. 2002. ‘Designing Leisure 
Applications for the Mundane Car-Commute’, Personal 
Ubiquitous Comput., 6, 3 (January 2002), pp. 176-187. 
Gainaru, A., C. Dobre, and V. Cristea. 2009. ‘A Realistic Mobility 
Model based on Social Networks for the Simulation of 
VANETs’, in Proc. of the VTC-Spring 2009 Conference, 
Barcelona, Spain, pp. 1-5. 
Lee, W.-H., S.-S. Tseng, and C.-H. Wang. 2008. ‘Design and 
implementation of electronic toll collection system based on 
vehicle positioning system techniques’, Comput. Commun, 31, 
12 (July 2008), pp. 2925-2933.  
O'Grady, M. J., and G.M.P. O'Hare. 2004. ‘Just-in-Time 
Multimedia Distribution in a Mobile Computing Environment’. 
IEEE MultiMedia 11, 4 (October 2004), pp. 62-74. 
Sgora, A., D. D. Vergados, P. Chatzimisios. 2009. ‘IEEE 802.11s 
Wireless Mesh Networks: Challenges and Perspectives’. In 
Proceedings of MOBILIGHT'2009. pp.263-271. 
Singh, J. P., N. Bambos, B. Srinivasan, D. Clawin. 2002. ‘Wireless 
LAN Performance Under Varied Stress Conditions in Vehicular 
Traffic Scenarios’. In Proceedings of Vehicular Technology 
Conference (VTC 2002 – Fall). pp. 743-747. 
Tarnoff, P.J., D.M. Bullock, and S.E. Young. 2009. ‘Continuing 
Evolution of Travel Time Data Information Collection and 
Processing’.Transportation Research Board Annual Meeting 
2009 
Paper 
#09-2030 
TRB 
88th 
Annual 
Meeting 
Compendium. 
Wong, S.H.Y., H. Yang, H. Songwu Lu, and V. Bharghavan. 2006. 
‘Robust rate adaptation for 802.11 wireless networks’, In 
Proceedings of the 12th annual international conference on 
Mobile computing and networking (MobiCom '06). ACM, New 
York, NY, USA, pp. 146-157. 
Sutariya, D., S. N. Pradhan. 2010. ‘Data Dissemination Techniques 
in Vehicular Ad Hoc Network’. Intl. Journal of Computer 
Applications (0975 – 8887). Volume 8– No.10, pp. 35-39. 
Nandan, A., S. Tewari, S. Das, L. Kleinrock. 2006. ‘Modeling 
epidemic query dissemination in Adtorrent Network’. In Proc. 
of IEEE CCNC, pp. 1173-1177. 
Zhao, J., Y. Zhang, G. Cao. 2007. ‘Data pouring and buffering on 
the road: A new data dissemination paradigm for Vehicular Ad 
© EUROSIS-ETI 
Hoc Networks’. IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 
vol. 56(6). pp. 3266-3277. 
Caliskan, M., D. Graupner, M. Mauve. 2006. ‘Decentralized 
discovery of free parking places’. In Proc. of the Intl. Conf. on 
Mobile Computing and Networking, pp. 30- 39. 
 
BIOGRAPHY 
 
CIPRIAN DOBRE PhD, is lecturer with the Computer 
Science and Engineering Department of the University 
POLITEHNICA of Bucharest. The main fields of expertise 
are Grid Computing, Monitoring and Control of Distributed 
Systems, Modeling and Simulation, Advanced Networking 
Architectures, Parallel and Distributed Algorithms. Ciprian 
Dobre is a member of the RoGRID (Romanian GRID) 
consortium and is involved in a number of national projects 
(CNCSIS, 
GridMOSI, 
MedioGRID, 
PEGAF) 
and 
international projects (MonALISA, MONARC, VINCI, 
VNSim, EGEE, SEE-GRID, EU-NCIT). His research 
activities were awarded with the Innovations in Networking 
Award for Experimental Applications in 2008 by the 
Corporation for Education Network Initiatives (CENIC).