arXiv:2506.09580v1  [cs.CR]  11 Jun 2025
The Everyday Security of Living with Conflict
Jessica McClearn
Royal Holloway, University of London
jessica.mcclearn.2021@live.rhul.ac.uk
Reem Talhouk
Northumbria University
reem.talhouk@northumbria.ac.uk
Rikke Bjerg Jensen
Royal Holloway, University of London
rikke.jensen@rhul.ac.uk
Abstract—When ‘cyber’ is used as a prefix, attention is
typically drawn to the technological and spectacular aspects
of war and conflict – and, by extension, security. We offer a
different approach to engaging with and understanding security
in such contexts, by foregrounding the everyday – mundane
– experiences of security within communities living with and
fleeing from war. We do so through three vignettes from our field
research in Colombia, Lebanon and Sweden, respectively, and by
highlighting the significance of ethnography for security research
with communities living in regions afflicted by war. We conclude
by setting out a call to action for security researchers and
practitioners to consider such lived experiences in the design of
security technology that aims to cater to the needs of communities
in ‘global conflict and disaster regions’.
I. MUNDANITY IN THE SPECTACULAR
Images of the destruction and suffering caused by wars waged,
often at a distance, make their way to our screens through
different news platforms. We witness smoke billowing from
dropped bombs and people searching for missing family
members under the rubble, alongside stories of the scattering
of people as they are displaced. We are presented with reports
on how advanced technologies enable ‘targeted operations’
and ‘precision bombing’; yet, little reflection is offered on
how such mechanisms of (modern) warfare impact commu-
nities that experience conflict at close proximity. This is not
surprising, however, with much security-driven research con-
centrating on technological advances and policy interventions
(e.g. international law) in the context of conflict. With the
foregrounding of spectacular and technological depictions of
war, security considerations are often reduced to questions
related to its cyber capabilities. Typically, this means that
the security concerns for those living in conflict and disaster
regions are overlooked; their security is generally not reliant
on the security of the technology itself, i.e. cyber security,
but on the security that the technology may afford them
to establish a sense of continuity and control in an every-
day shattered by conflict and fears. In other words, while
technology might serve a security purpose for communities
living through conflict, this purpose often lies in its social and
relational faculties more than the security of the technology
itself. It is in this mundane that we can also observe what
security looks and feels like for those impacted by war. To
do so, we argue, requires a broad conception of security; a
conception that brings computer security into conversation
with socially grounded and immersive research approaches,
such as ethnography, enabling insights and interpretations of
how security and technology are interwoven.
Building on our previous field research we show how, in
contexts of conflict, it is often the mundane daily routines
and practices that shape people’s understanding of security
and how technology shapes it. We thus call for research and
practice that broadens understandings of security in conflict
settings by grounding security in how people go about their
daily lives. We ask: How do people living through conflict
navigate daily experiences of insecurity, and what are the
security needs of those displaced by conflict? Many of the
answers to such questions can be found by observing how
people practice security in their everyday. In the words of
Crawford and Hutchinson:
...[T]he ‘everyday’ acts as an important counter to
a prevailing emphasis upon the ‘spectacular’ and
the ‘exceptional’, which cast a long shadow over
security research [1, p.5].
Drawing upon everyday security [1], [2] we demonstrate,
through three vignettes from our field research in Colombia
(2024), Lebanon (2022) and Sweden (2018), how security
for people in specific conflict contexts is rooted in their
everyday social and relational ties. We therefore also insist on
understanding the security concerns of people living through
conflict by engaging with the mundane, rather than through
sensationalist narratives or by foregrounding technological
advances as are often captured in the prefix cyber. This also
means that throughout this article we consider what security
means – and what it is – to the participants in our vignettes.
Thus, we do not approach security from the understanding that
it can be neatly separated into either ‘social’ or ‘technologi-
cal’, but argue for a conception where it can be – and often
is – both. Our project is founded in a call to action; a call for
security researchers, practitioners and designers to step into the
social realities and lived security experiences of those living
through, and displaced by, conflict. As noted by the authors
of [3], this is in contrast to the prevailing practice within
computer security, where “in the absence of far away users
under threat, designers can invoke them at will and imagine
their needs”. To do so requires a methodological approach
that enables immersion in the contexts and communities under
study: ethnography.
II. EVERYDAY SECURITY IN CONFLICT
The very nature of war is of course catastrophic; yet, the
sensationalising of war disguises the lived reality and day-to-
day experiences of communities living through it. Similarly,
when cyber security is invoked in the context of war, attention
is typically given to narratives of cyber policy, cyber warfare
and nation state cyber capabilities. Similarly, Hutchings [4]
argues how the language of war has captured narratives of
cyber crime, which has led to sensationalist depictions that do
not reflect the “lived reality” of those impacted by it. Further,
the authors of [5] in their work on the nature and frequency of
recent DDoS attacks between Russia and Ukraine, highlight
how the spectre of cyber war masks the actual technical
reality of such attacks. Such narratives risk obfuscating the
more mundane experiences of communities living through war,
where security is often rooted in daily routine activities and
practices that provide a sense of stability and predictability –
and, by extension, security.
We position our contribution within our own prior co-
authored work – and the work of others – that recognises
the significance of the everyday in security research. For
example, in [6]–[8] we used the framing of ‘the everyday’
to analyse how social aspects shaped digital security for
refugees resettling in a new land. In [9] we highlighted
the everyday insecurities experienced by Syrian refugees in
Lebanon navigating food aid technologies, while we in [10],
[11] showed the everyday experiences of insecurity in Lebanon
among marginalised groups and how they tried to overcome
infrastructural failures. Individually – and collectively – these
works highlight how the technological needs of communi-
ties living through or displaced by conflict are rooted in
mundane practices of security, such as the sourcing of food,
navigating broken infrastructures, learning how to take a bus,
comprehending new cultural contexts, and searching for a
job and housing. Therefore, although the participants in these
studies relied on technology to navigate their everyday security
concerns, these concerns were not technological.
Using our individual voices and experiences of conducting
security research in different contexts, we provide vignettes
from our fieldwork in Lebanon, Colombia and Sweden. We
do so to illustrate how (in)security was woven into the fabric
of everyday life (and survival) for the people we encountered
in these three settings, showing how and for what purpose the
people we encountered relied on technology for their security
and, in particular, the security of others. Thus, staying with our
call to action, our vignettes suggest that designing for those
living through or displaced by conflict requires understanding
not simply their use of technology but the mundane contexts
within which they use technology and the reasons they give.
III. VIGNETTE: EMPTY HOUSES, LEBANON
The ongoing conflict in Lebanon has led to an economic
crisis which is evidenced in the movement of populations,
the breaking down of physical infrastructures and everyday
security practices. This economic crisis has been referred to
by the World Bank as a ‘ponzi scheme’ [12], forcing many
people to leave the country temporarily and seek economic
security elsewhere.
One participant,1 who had spent some time outside of
Lebanon and since returned to the country, emphasised that
Lebanese people “are not static”. The participant noted how
the state of flux was also visible in the built environment:
“If you go to certain areas of Lebanon you will just find
empty houses, empty villas that people build with the money
they made abroad to show that they belong. Then for example
people pass away or they never come back and the property is
just empty.” The traces of people having moved, such as empty
houses, created a sense of having been left behind, of being
stuck, while pointing to the displacement of many Lebanese
people.
Those who had decided to remain in Lebanon were living
with the daily consequences of the conflict. For example,
because of the economic instability of the country, many
people lacked access to their personal finances as restrictions
had been placed on ATM cash withdrawals. This meant that
people in Lebanon would often rely on money transfers from
the Lebanese diaspora. This paired with limited stable internet
access led to a daily struggle to secure personal finances
and, ultimately, to survive. These challenges of access over-
shadowed any concerns related to technological security or,
more significantly, privacy in the context of sharing sensitive
and personal details with those whose help could ensure
one’s survival – through money transfers from abroad. One
participant shared:
Relatives are sending money which is the lifeline
right now [...] We are at a point where talking about
[digital] rights becomes a conversation which a lot
of the public is out of the loop of, if they are worried
about their immediate survival.
The transient nature of life in Lebanon had deep-rooted
implications for people’s everyday security; deserted buildings
served as reminders of the uncertainty that continued to shape
life in Lebanon. The impact of movement and temporality in
the context of conflict – being displaced for shorter or longer
periods of time – is an area of burgeoning security research
which deserves further attention. How (in)security presents
itself for transient communities and their reliance on specific
technological functionalities, such as the wiring of money from
afar, requires an understanding of the entanglement of identity
and security in this setting. Combined with the ‘emptiness’
caused by the conflict, the struggle to survive, as shown in this
vignette, left those living in Lebanon at the mercy of both the
functionalities enabled by money transfer technologies and the
Lebanese diaspora whose empty houses remained as physical
reminders of their displacement. Here, security concerns, while
not technological, were partly mitigated by practices enabled
through technology.
1We anonymise all participants to ensure their protection.
IV. VIGNETTE: BEING HEARD, COLOMBIA
Gender, land and security are intimately interwoven in the
department of Cauca in Colombia. Many groups in Colombia
live in rural zones, heavily controlled by paramilitary organ-
isations. The deep-rooted gendered expectations of women
to look after the home, and the scarcity of technology in
such areas, left many women feeling abandoned. This was
exemplified by one participant, from rural Cauca, who worked
for an international non-governmental organisation (NGO)
as she discussed the gendered nature of the already limited
technological infrastructures in the rural zones, and how this
impacted the lives of women:
In the end, who is going to have it [a mobile phone]?
The man who goes out more, and the woman who
is often relegated to those private roles in the home,
she does not have access to technology.
Limited technological infrastructures paired with gender di-
vides meant that women were often confined to the home.
Labour related to the home was also extended to the surround-
ing land and natural resources. Illegal mining and extractive
practices had contaminated many rivers, leading to health
concerns which unequally impacted women. One participant
stressed the significance of this: “The river is the only source
for their [the women] life, for food, for fishing, for washing
clothes.” As a form of resistance, many women often became
social leaders and land defenders. While this mobilisation of
women meant that they had become more visible in their
communities, it also led to an increase in the number of
enforced disappearances of women activists. As a result, many
women decided to stay silent. Another participant, a conflict
victim and social leader, explained this during the fieldwork:
Many have decided to remain silent and keep quiet,
that is why our body gets sick and screams, what the
mouth is silent about and what the body feels. So
then we get sick from many things and it is because
of the lack of listening.
For these women, the tensions between everyday security, on
the one hand, and their increased visibility, on the other, were
intimately tied to the continued conflict in Cauca. To translate
the significance of such mundane normalities for security
research and practice, this vignette demonstrates how, for these
women, security was observed through their experienced lack
of technological infrastructures and the prevalence of gendered
risks as well as discriminatory practices. In many ways, the
absence of technology in their daily struggle for survival
was seen as a security risk that left many women isolated
in rural settings. The vignettes thus demonstrates how there
is a concrete need for security technologies that both permit
and enable communities in at-risk contexts to be heard, while
taking into consideration, factors such as gender, language,
limited infrastructures and economic deprivation. While ten-
sions between security and visibility in at-risk contexts are not
new, here such tensions materialise through everyday forms of
resistance.
V. VIGNETTE: ON A BUS, SWEDEN
Okay, so maybe sometimes the phone is not good,
but right now, for me, the phone is my right hand.
This is a quote from a Syrian refugee in Sweden during
fieldwork in 2018. She had been forced to leave behind her
parents and husband in conflict-ridden Syria two years earlier.
When she arrived in Sweden she had been granted the ‘right
to remain’. Yet, like so many others in her situation, she was
still waiting to receive a decision on her application for asylum
in Sweden. Although not unique to her, her story is one of
uncertainty and of being suspended between the life (and the
people) she had left behind in Syria and the life she was trying
to establish in Sweden – still with the hope that her family
would be able to join her soon.
The quote relates to her experience of sitting on a bus
in Malm¨o, Sweden, as she was going from her temporary
accommodation to her daily language classes. She never left
her house without her mobile phone, ensuring that it was fully
charged but still carrying the charger – in case she would need
it throughout the day, which she usually did. While displaced
from her family, this daily routine gave her a sense of security;
knowing that she would always be reachable should anyone
in Syria need her.
Sitting on this bus, on this day, she had received a call from
her husband: “My husband and my parents were on their way
to the Swedish visa application centre in Beirut from Syria,
when they needed my ‘right to remain’ in Sweden in order to
be able to enter Lebanon as they were told they would not be
allowed to enter without it.” This is a document that she would
always carry with her. Still on the bus, she took a picture of
it and quickly shared with her husband; enabling her family
to enter Lebanon and take the next steps in their own asylum-
seeking processes. For her, everyday security was captured in
that moment. While physically displaced by the conflict, she
was closely connected to it, both through the experiences of
others and her own memories from a life of navigating an
everyday existence during political and social upheaval. Her
mobile phone had become an extension of herself (“my right
hand”), through which she lived the security (and insecurity)
of others. Thus, computer security mechanisms such as access
control, privacy settings and encrypted messaging played no
role in her everyday security. Security for her was to be able
to quickly share and receive information – not whether such
information was protected.
VI. A CALL TO ACTION
It is in the mundane that we can observe and question the
tensions between security and insecurity that shape people’s
lived experiences in times of conflict. As our vignettes exem-
plify, however, mundanity is neither monolithic nor static; it is
contextual and dynamic. We therefore caution against drawing
distinct conclusions from our vignettes. Rather, our aim is that
these vignettes shine a light on the often intricate, subtle and
diverse ways in which security is experienced – also during
conflict and war. Our call to action is threefold,
For researchers to understand the security practices and
needs of people living with and through conflict necessitates
adopting methodologies that are designed to engage with the
everyday and the subtleties that a sensationalist perspective –
often by invoking a cyber framing – fails to capture. This also
requires a broad conception of security, where the (academic)
distinction between safety and security is less significant, as
exemplified through our vignettes. For the participants in these
vignettes, the separation between social and technological
foundations of security would be equally artificial. We follow
in the footsteps of others (e.g. [13], [14]) who have called
for a diversification of methodologies within security-driven
research. Specifically, we call for immersion in ‘the everyday’
of those living in global conflict and disaster regions, to
understand what security means to them and how they reason
about it – before considering the potential role of (security)
technology in such settings.
For developers to consider what designing for displaced
populations actually means there is a pressing need to engage
with the communities being designed for. Further, for (secu-
rity) technologies to serve communities impacted by conflict,
the design of such technologies must be grounded in the
mundane experiences and social reality of such communities.
Thus, through practices of co-design and participatory meth-
ods, we call on developers to collaborate with community-
facing security researchers who use diverse methodologies,
including ethnographic methods, to study the needs of distinct
communities in situ. This, we posit, has the possibility of
affording technologists a deeper understanding of the lived,
social realities and material conditions of communities dis-
placed by war, rather than imagining their needs at will
– acknowledging, as our vignettes show, how contexts and
conditions are dynamic.
For practitioners such as policy designers to engage with
the mundane, we call for computer security to be situated in
broader conceptions of security. Despite increasing traction
around human-centered security research, security, when con-
sidered in computer security venues, is typically understood as
a technological question. We argue that this focus overlooks
the lived, mundane experiences of conflict and displacement.
We thus challenge (as others have done) the use of the prefix:
cyber – as it, often unhelpfully, focuses attention on the
distinctly non-human aspects of war and security. It further
casts a shadow over and distorts the lived experiences of
people during conflict, where security is embedded in how
people go about their daily lives – in the mundane.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work would not exist without the many contributions
from people, both in and outside of Lebanon, Colombia and
Sweden, who generously gave their time to speak to us and
trusted us with their knowledge. The research of Jessica
McClearn was supported by the EPSRC as part of the Centre
for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security for the Everyday at
Royal Holloway, University of London (EP/S021817/1).
REFERENCES
[1] A. Crawford and S. Hutchinson, “Mapping the contours of ‘everyday
security’: Time, space and emotion,” British Journal of Criminology,
vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 1184–1202, 2016.
[2] J. Nyman, “The everyday life of security: Capturing space, practice, and
affect,” International Political Sociology, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 313–337,
2021.
[3] M. Aouragh, S. G¨urses, J. Rocha, and F. Snelting, “Fcj-196 let’s first
get things done! on division of labour and techno-political practices of
delegation in times of crisis,” The Fibreculture Journal, no. 26 2015:
Entanglements–Activism and Technology, 2015.
[4] A. Hutchings, “The amplification of online deviancy through the lan-
guage of violent crime, war, and aggression,” IEEE Security & Privacy,
vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 81–84, 2024.
[5] A. V. Vu, D. R. Thomas, B. Collier, A. Hutchings, R. Clayton, and
R. Anderson, “Getting bored of cyberwar: exploring the role of low-
level cybercrime actors in the russia-ukraine conflict,” in Proceedings of
the ACM on Web Conference 2024, 2024, pp. 1596–1607.
[6] L. Coles-Kemp and R. B. Jensen, “Accessing a new land: Designing for
a social conceptualisation of access,” in Proceedings of the 2019 CHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 2019, pp. 1–12.
[7] L. Coles-Kemp, R. B. Jensen, and R. Talhouk, “In a new land: mobile
phones, amplified pressures and reduced capabilities,” in Proceedings of
the 2018 chi conference on human factors in computing systems, 2018,
pp. 1–13.
[8] R. B. Jensen, L. Coles-Kemp, and R. Talhouk, “When the civic turn turns
digital: Designing safe and secure refugee resettlement,” in Proceedings
of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems,
2020, pp. 1–14.
[9] R. Talhouk, L. Coles-Kemp, R. B. Jensen, M. Balaam, A. Garbett,
H. Ghattas, V. Araujo-Soares, B. Ahmad, and K. Montague, “Food aid
technology: the experience of a syrian refugee community in coping
with food insecurity,” Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer
Interaction, vol. 4, no. CSCW2, pp. 1–25, 2020.
[10] J. McClearn, R. B. Jensen, and R. Talhouk, “Othered, silenced and
scapegoated: Understanding the situated security of marginalised pop-
ulations in lebanon,” in 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 23), 2023, pp. 4625–4642.
[11] J. Mcclearn, R. B. Jensen, and R. Talhouk, “Security patchworking in
lebanon: Infrastructuring across failing infrastructures,” Proceedings of
the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction, vol. 8, no. CSCW1, pp. 1–
26, 2024.
[12] W.
Bank,
“Lebanon
public
finance
review:
Ponzi
finance?”
https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/37824/, 2022.
[13] J. Slupska, S. Cho, M. Begonia, R. Abu-Salma, N. Prakash, and
M. Balakrishnan, ““They Look at Vulnerability and Use That to Abuse
You”:Participatory Threat Modelling with Migrant Domestic Workers,”
in 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22), 2022, pp.
323–340.
[14] M. R. Albrecht, J. Blasco, R. B. Jensen, and L. Marekov´a, “Collective
Information Security in Large-Scale Urban Protests: the Case of Hong
Kong,” in 30th USENIX Security Symposium.
USENIX ’21, 2021, pp.
3363–3380.
VIII. AUTHORS
• Jessica McClearn is a PhD candidate at Royal Hol-
loway, University of London in the Centre for Doc-
toral Training in Cyber Security for the Everyday.
She uses ethnographic methods to explore the inter-
section of digital and ontological security within po-
litical and interpersonal conflicts. Contact her at jes-
sica.mcclearn.2021@live.rhul.ac.uk
• Reem Talhouk is an associate professor in Design and
Global Development at Northumbria University. She has
conducted research with refugees, activists and humani-
tarians, with a focus on the interplay between sociotechni-
cal systems and mechanisms of oppression and resistance.
Contact her at reem.talhouk@northumbria.ac.uk.
• Rikke Bjerg Jensen
is a professor in the Informa-
tion Security Group at Royal Holloway, University of
London. She is a social scientists, an ethnographer,
and focuses on the information security experiences,
needs, practices and perspectives of groups of people in
higher-risk and/or marginalised settings. Contact her at
rikke.jensen@rhul.ac.uk.