1
Towards Governance of Localized VANET: An
Adjustable Degree Distribution Model
Ruixing Ren İD , Junhui Zhao İD , Senior Member, IEEE, Xiaoke Sun İD , and Shanjin Ni İD
Abstract—Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks (VANETs) serve as a
critical enabler for intelligent transportation systems. However,
their practical deployment faces a core governance dilemma:
the network topology requires a dynamic trade-off between
robustness against targeted attacks and ensuring low-latency
information transmission. Most existing models generate fixed
degree distributions, lacking the ability to adapt autonomously
to the demands of diverse traffic scenarios. To address this
challenge, this paper innovatively proposes a schedulable degree
distribution model for localized VANETs. The core of this model
lies in introducing a hybrid connection mechanism. When estab-
lishing connections, newly joining nodes do not follow a single
rule but instead collaboratively perform random attachment
and preferential attachment. Through theoretical derivation and
simulation validation, this study demonstrates that by adjusting
the cooperative weighting between these two mechanisms, the
overall network degree distribution can achieve a continuous
and controllable transition between a uniform distribution and
a power-law distribution. The former effectively disperses attack
risks and enhances robustness, while the latter facilitates the
formation of hub nodes, shortening transmission paths to reduce
latency. Experimental results based on the real-world road
network of Beijing indicate that this model can precisely regulate
node connection heterogeneity, attack resistance, and average
transmission path length through the reshaping of the under-
lying topology. This provides a forward-looking and practical
governance paradigm for constructing next-generation VANETs
capable of dynamically adapting to complex environments.
Index Terms—Vehicular Ad-hoc Network, topology gover-
nance, complex networks, information transmission efficiency,
network survivability.
I. INTRODUCTION
The Vehicular Ad-hoc Network (VANET) serves as the
core infrastructure for Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS)
and a critical enabler for the deep integration of vehicles,
roadside units, and cloud services [1], [2]. By establishing
real-time, dynamic Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) and Vehicle-to-
Infrastructure (V2I) communication capabilities, it directly
empowers critical applications such as real-time collision
warning, dynamic traffic control, and cooperative autonomous
driving [3]. Consequently, VANET fundamentally determines
the ultimate efficacy of ITS in enhancing road safety, traffic
efficiency, and user experience [4]–[6].
However, the practical deployment of this promising vi-
sion faces significant challenges. The predominant commu-
Corresponding author: Junhui Zhao.
Ruixing Ren, Junhui Zhao are with the School of Electronic and Information
Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China. (e-mail:
renruixing0604@163.com; junhuizhao@hotmail.com)
Xiaoke Sun and Shanjin Ni are with the National Computer Net-
work Emergency Response Technical Team/Coordination Center of China
(CNCERT/CC), Beijing 100029, China.
nication standard for VANETs, IEEE 802.11p, typically has
a limited coverage radius of 300-500 meters, imposing an
inherent constraint on the perceptual range of On-Board Unit
(OBU) nodes [7]. A more critical issue is the high mobility
of vehicles (e.g., reaching 120 km/h on highways), which
makes the real-time acquisition of global network topology
information extremely costly, or even entirely infeasible in
scenarios involving massive, densely interacting nodes [8]–
[10]. These two inherent constraints collectively dictate that
the topological evolution of VANETs cannot rely on global
information. Instead, connections must be established based
on data from neighboring nodes within the communication
range, thereby giving rise to the localized VANET paradigm
as a fundamental operational model.
However, while circumventing the need for global informa-
tion, this localized paradigm introduces distinct governance
challenges that directly impact the reliability of intelligent
transportation applications. The first issue is robustness against
targeted attacks. The presence of high-degree hub nodes, such
as critical Roadside Units (RSUs), makes the network vulner-
able. If such a node is compromised by jamming or physical
destruction, it can lead to localized network failure [11], a risk
especially critical in congested urban areas [12]. Conversely,
the second challenge concerns low-latency transmission. High-
speed scenarios require millisecond-level responses for appli-
cations like collision warning. Without efficient hub nodes,
information must travel through multiple hops, increasing the
average path length and transmission delay beyond acceptable
limits for real-time operation [13]. The core challenge, how-
ever, lies in dynamic adaptation. Different traffic scenarios
impose conflicting requirements: urban congestion demands
robust, interference-tolerant topologies, while highway envi-
ronments prioritize minimal latency. Existing static models
cannot dynamically adjust network properties according to
operational context. Relying on a single, fixed configuration in
dynamic environments constitutes a major bottleneck for the
practical deployment of VANETs.
The academic community has explored VANET governance
challenges from multiple dimensions, which can be broadly
categorized as follows. Research in topology management and
optimization focuses on constructing robust and efficient net-
work structures. Existing efforts include centralized periodic
interventions for long-term routing planning at intersections
[14], and improved multi-relay mechanisms to reduce control
overhead and optimize latency and throughput [15]. A sys-
tematic review of umanned aerial vehicle network topology
control [16] also offers cross-domain algorithmic insights.
Furthermore, studies have revealed the fundamental impact
arXiv:2601.21176v1  [eess.SY]  29 Jan 2026
of topology on system resilience: while traditional nearest-
neighbor topologies exhibit security flaws [17], k-nearest
neighbor topologies achieve a better balance between perfor-
mance and security. Connectivity analysis in platoon-based
VANETs [18] further quantifies performance gains from struc-
tured vehicle formations. However, most approaches focus
either on optimizing specific static or quasi-static topologies,
or merely revealing inherent properties of particular structures.
They lack a general mechanism capable of proactively and
precisely reshaping the underlying degree distribution of the
network according to dynamic scenario requirements.
In the domain of routing and resource management, research
focuses on efficient data dissemination over a given topology.
Examples include integrating Manhattan grid topology with
intelligent algorithms to enhance communication efficiency
and resist jamming attacks [19], dynamically allocating re-
sources using fuzzy logic and Markov chains to optimize
throughput and latency [20], [21], and reducing total video
delivery delay through joint topology and cache optimization
[22]. In urban settings, hybrid routing protocols incorporating
mobility models have proven effective in improving delivery
rate and reducing latency [23]. While these schemes achieve
effective traffic governance on existing networks, their per-
formance ceiling is constrained by the inherent properties of
the underlying topology. If the network itself is vulnerable
due to overly centralized hubs, or suffers from excessively
long paths due to overly uniform connectivity, upper-layer
routing and resource scheduling alone can achieve only limited
effectiveness.
Finally, in the domain of security, privacy, and trust gover-
nance, research aims to identify and eliminate malicious nodes
to enhance network security [24]. Trust management models
leveraging blockchain and machine learning [25], [26] can
effectively assess vehicle credibility and filter misinformation,
while efficient anonymous authentication schemes [27] enable
traceability of malicious vehicles without compromising pri-
vacy. A comprehensive survey on identity-based authentication
[1] systematically outlines the trade-offs in this field. These
technologies are indispensable for VANET governance, but
their primary role lies in filtering network participants rather
than shaping the underlying connectivity structure. As revealed
in [28], blackhole attacks can easily double latency and reduce
throughput, underscoring that even within a "trusted" network,
the inherent fragility of the topology itself remains a critical
threat.
In summary, while existing research has made significant
progress in protocol optimization, traffic management, and se-
curity authentication for VANETs, a fundamental governance
challenge remains inadequately addressed: the construction of
a VANET with an inherently malleable underlying topology.
Such a network should dynamically and seamlessly transition
between the efficiency of scale-free networks [29] and the
robustness of random networks [30] in response to real-
time scenario demands, prioritizing low latency on suburban
highways and attack resistance in congested urban areas. Most
existing models adhere to a fixed degree distribution pattern,
rendering them incapable of this cross-paradigm adaptive gov-
ernance. This limitation constitutes a core bottleneck hindering
the transition of VANETs from theoretical frameworks to
large-scale practical deployment.
To address this gap, this paper innovatively proposes a
schedulable degree distribution model for localized VANET
governance. The core of this model lies in introducing a
uniform-preference connection probability. Through theoret-
ical derivation and simulation, we demonstrate that the model
enables a continuous, controllable transition of the network
degree distribution between an attack-resistant exponential
distribution and a low-latency power-law distribution. This
offers a forward-looking and flexible governance paradigm for
dynamic traffic environments. The core contributions are:
• It systematically analyzes the degree distribution limi-
tations in basic localized VANET models and proposes
a schedulable degree distribution model. By integrating
a hybrid connection mechanism that balances uniform
and preferential attachment, the model achieves dynamic
switching between robustness-oriented exponential and
latency-oriented power-law degree distributions.
• Using the mean-field approach, it mathematically de-
rives the model’s degree distribution properties, explic-
itly quantifying the distribution patterns under different
connection probabilities. Complete differential equation
solving and continuous-field approximation provide a
rigorous mathematical foundation, validating the model’s
design.
• An experimental environment is built using the SUMO
traffic simulator with a real-world road network east of
Beijing’s Forbidden City. Degree distribution statistics
confirm the theoretical derivation. Attack resistance is
verified via targeted and random attack tests, while trans-
mission efficiency is evaluated by measuring the average
path length, collectively demonstrating the model’s gov-
ernance effectiveness in practical VANET scenarios.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II analyzes the limitations of existing localized VANET
models. Section III details the proposed adjustable degree dis-
tribution model. Section IV provides a theoretical derivation of
the model’s degree distribution properties. Section V presents
the simulation setup and a quantitative analysis of the model’s
governance performance. Finally, Section VI concludes the
paper and suggests future research directions.
II. ANALYSIS OF DEGREE DISTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS IN
BASIC LOCALIZED VANET MODELS
Basic localized VANET models, built upon the local-world
assumption of the BA model, restrict node connections to
within communication range [31]. However, their reliance on
a single attachment rule results in a fixed degree distribution,
lacking schedulability. This section outlines the core logic of
these baseline models, followed by an analysis of their inherent
limitations due to static degree distributions.
A. Core Logic of the Baseline Model
In the evolution of the BA scale-free network model,
new nodes require global network information and establish
connections via preferential attachment, ultimately forming a
power-law degree distribution with an exponent of 3 [29], [32].
However, in VANETs, the communication range of OBUs is
limited by the coverage radius of wireless technology (e.g.,
typically 300–500 m for IEEE 802.11p), and high vehicle
mobility makes global information acquisition prohibitively
costly. This necessitates the introduction of a local-world
concept. The evolution of the basic localized VANET model
proceeds as follows.
Initial Network Construction. Initially, m0 core nodes,
comprising s RSUs fixed at intersections or road segments and
m0 −s OBUs, are deployed in the monitoring area. These
nodes form e0 initial links (e.g., full connectivity between
RSUs and between RSUs and nearby OBUs) via the IEEE
802.11p protocol.
New Node Joining and Local World Selection. At each
time step, a newly joined OBU detects all existing nodes
within its communication range and randomly selects M nodes
as its local world. It then establishes connections with m
(m ≤M) nodes from this local world.
Local Preferential Attachment. During network growth,
each newly joined OBU bases its attachment decisions not on
global information, but on its local world. This mechanism bet-
ter reflects the real VANET scenario of limited communication
range and localized information. Building upon the preferential
attachment principle of the classic BA scale-free network
model but constrained by the local world, the probability
ΠLocal(ki) that a new node connects to an existing node i
within its local world is a joint probability determined by two
events:
• Event 1: Node i is included in the new node’s local
world. Assuming the total number of nodes at time step
t is N(t) = m0 + t, where m0 is the initial number
of nodes, the new node randomly selects M nodes
from its communication range to form its local world
(M ≤N(t)). Thus, the probability that any existing node
i is included in this local world is:
Π(i ∈Local) =
M
m0 + t.
(1)
This term reflects the impact of global network growth
dynamics on node visibility.
• Event 2: Node i is selected via preferential attachment
within the local world. Inside a given local world, the
new OBU follows the rich-get-richer principle, preferring
to connect to nodes with higher degrees. Let P
j∈Local kj
be the sum of the degrees of all nodes in the local world.
The conditional probability that node i is selected given
its inclusion in the local world is:
Π(Select i|i ∈Local) =
ki
P
j∈Local kj
.
(2)
This term ensures that connection preference is propor-
tional to node degree within the local scope.
Integrating the above two events, the final probability for a
new OBU to connect to an existing node i is therefore given
by the product of these two probabilities:
ΠLocal(ki) = Π(i ∈Local)·
ki
P
j∈Local kj
=
M
m0 + t·
ki
P
j∈Local kj
.
(3)
B. Scenario Mapping of Degree Distribution Limitations
The degree distribution of the baseline model is solely
determined by the local world size M, constrained by m ≤
M ≤m0 + t. Three typical scenarios are analyzed based on
the value of M:
(1) When M = m: The number of nodes in the new OBU’s
local world exactly equals its required number of connections
m. Consequently, the new node must establish links with all
nodes in its local world. In this scenario, network evolu-
tion involves only a growth mechanism without preferential
attachment. This resembles a blind connection scenario in
VANETs, such as when a vehicle rapidly enters a suburban
or remote highway area without RSU coverage, forcing it to
form temporary connections with a limited number of nearby
vehicles without the ability to select highly connected nodes.
Based on the mean-field approach, the discrete evolution of
node degree is approximated using a continuous real variable.
The change in degree ki of node i with respect to time step t
can be described by the following equation:
∂ki
∂t =
m
m0 + t
(4)
Solving this differential equation yields an exponential degree
distribution of the form:
P(k) ∝e−k
m
(5)
The resulting uniform degree distribution, lacking prominent
hubs, disperses the impact of targeted attacks (e.g., jamming,
physical destruction), thereby preserving basic connectivity
even under partial node failures. However, the absence of hub
nodes for efficient multi-hop forwarding increases the average
path length, ultimately failing to meet the low-latency demands
of VANET applications such as collision warning and real-time
coordination.
(2) When M = m0+t: The new OBU’s local world encom-
passes all nodes in the entire network, reducing the model to
the BA scale-free model. In this scenario, new nodes acquire
global network information and select connections based on
preferential attachment. This is only feasible in small-scale,
low-mobility environments like vehicle networks in confined
areas, as global information perception is impractical for large-
scale VANETs. The probability of an existing node i being
selected by a new node is:
Π(ki) =
ki
P
j kj
,
(6)
Each newly joined OBU establishes m new connections. Thus,
at time step t, the total number of edges is E = t · m. Since
each edge contributes 2 to the total degree count, the sum of
all node degrees in the network is
P
j kj = 2E = 2tm.
(7)
Under the preferential attachment mechanism in the BA
model, the probability that a new node selects an existing node
i is given by:
Π(ki) =
ki
P
j kj
=
ki
2tm
(8)
Assuming one new OBU joins per time step and establishes m
new connections, the rate of change of node i’s degree equals
the probability of its selection multiplied by m, expressed as:
∂ki
∂t = m · Π(ki)
(9)
Substitution yields the temporal evolution of node i’s degree
ki with respect to time step t as:
∂ki
∂t = m · ki
2tm = ki
2t
(10)
This demonstrates that a higher degree ki leads to a greater
rate of change
∂ki
∂t , reflecting the rich-get-richer nature of
preferential attachment. Meanwhile, as the network matures
(larger t), the impact of new connections on individual node
degrees dilutes. Solving the equation confirms the degree
distribution follows a power law, expressed as:
P(k) ∝2m2k−3
(11)
This configuration generates a small number of highly con-
nected hubs (e.g., critical RSUs or highly active vehicles),
which facilitate efficient data forwarding. However, this makes
the network highly vulnerable to targeted attacks, as the
compromise of a single hub can trigger localized network
paralysis.
(3) When m < M < m0 + t: This represents the typical
operational regime of the localized VANET model. New OBUs
select their local world from a partial set of neighbors within
communication range, adhering to practical constraints while
enabling emergent scale-free characteristics through localized
preferential attachment. The degree ki of node i evolves with
time step t as governed by:
∂ki
∂t = m ·
M
m0 + t ·
ki
P
j∈Local kj
(12)
The total number of links in the network is the sum of the
initial links e0 and the m links added per time step over t
steps, giving mt+e0. With a total of t+m0 nodes, and since
each link contributes 2 to the total degree, the average node
degree ⟨k⟩at time step t is:
⟨k⟩= 2(mt + e0)
m0 + t
(13)
The sum of the degrees of nodes within the local world equals
the average degree multiplied by M:
X
j∈Local
kj = M· < k >= 2M(mt + e0)
m0 + t
(14)
Integrating these expressions, the resulting degree distribution
for this scenario is derived as:
P(k) ≈2m2k−3
(15)
This network exhibits both local constraints and preferential
attachment, producing a degree distribution that approximates
a power law, similar to a scale-free network but distinct
from the pure BA model due to its localized preference,
demonstrating an extension of the BA model that preserves
scale-free properties under local constraints.
Analysis of the three scenarios reveals that as the local world
size M increases, the network’s degree distribution transitions
from exponential to power-law, shifting its properties from
attack resistance towards low-latency transmission. However,
the model inherently lacks dynamic schedulability—it cannot
actively balance robustness and transmission efficiency accord-
ing to specific traffic scenarios (e.g., prioritizing low latency
on highways). This highlights the critical need for a VANET
model capable of achieving on-demand degree distribution
scheduling through active parameter control.
III. DESIGN OF AN ADJUSTABLE DISTRIBUTION-BASED
LOCALIZED VANET MODEL
To address the limitations of the baseline model, this paper
introduces a hybrid connection mechanism, enabling contin-
uous degree distribution scheduling between exponential and
power-law regimes. This section details the model’s design
principles, evolutionary steps, and core mechanism.
A. Design Principles and Core Logic for Degree Distribution
Scheduling
As a dynamic complex network, VANET topology evolution
must satisfy the following core requirements, which form the
basis for our model enhancement:
• Distributed Construction: Due to mobility and limited
communication range, nodes cannot access global net-
work information. The model must support distributed
networking using local data, avoiding the high overhead
of centralized control, while accommodating different
node types.
• Dynamic Robustness Adaptation: VANETs face both
random and targeted attacks. The fixed degree distribution
of the baseline model cannot simultaneously address
both threats, necessitating a tunable attachment rule to
dynamically adapt robustness.
• Low-Latency Transmission: Core VANET applications
require minimal latency. The ultra-small-world charac-
teristic of scale-free networks, exhibiting short average
path lengths, is crucial for meeting this requirement.
Model improvements must strive to preserve low-latency
characteristics while adjusting robustness.
To address these requirements, we introduce a hybrid
attachment probability p to enable dynamic degree distri-
bution scheduling. Each new OBU establishes connections
via uniform attachment with probability p, and preferential
attachment with probability 1 −p. By adjusting p, the degree
distribution can be dynamically tuned between an exponential
distribution (for attack resistance) and a power-law distribution
(for low latency), precisely adapting to different scenarios.
When p = 1, uniform attachment dominates, forming an
exponential degree distribution (interference-resistant mode).
When p = 0, preferential attachment prevails, yielding a
power-law distribution (low-latency mode). When 0 < p < 1,
hybrid attachment produces a tunable power-law variant.
Periodic Broadcasting
RSU
OBU
OBU
RSU
OBU
OBU
Initial Network Construction
Step 2
Step 1
OBU
OBU
OBU
New
OBU
New
OBU
New
New Node Connection Selection by
OBU
New
New Node Connection Selection by
Periodic Broadcasting
Periodic Broadcasting
Updating the Degree Sum 
within the Local World
Updating the Degree Sum 
within the Local World
Step 4
Step 3
Fig. 1. Process diagram for model evolution steps.
B. Model Evolution Process
The model evolution, illustrated in Fig. 1, adheres to
VANET deployment scenarios and protocol specifications
through the following steps:
Step 1: Local World Sensing. Nodes periodically broadcast
IEEE 802.11p Beacon frames, recording neighbor IDs within
communication range to define their local world.
Step 2: Initial Network Construction. Initialize the net-
work with s RSUs and m0 −s OBUs, forming a fully
connected topology with e0 = m0(m0+1)
initial links.
Step 3: New OBU Joining and Connection. At each time
step, n new OBUs join. If a new OBU’s local world contains
at least m nodes, it selects m nodes using the proposed
probabilistic model; otherwise, it connects to all existing nodes
in its local world.
The core innovation lies in the hybrid attachment probability
p, mathematically expressed as a weighted combination of uni-
form and preferential attachment. The connection probability
for node i in the local world of the new node is defined as:
ΠLocal(ki) = p
Mi
+ ki(1 −p)
P
j∈Local kj
(16)
where ki denotes the degree of node i, P
j∈Local kj represents
the total degree of nodes within the local world, and Mi is
the total number of nodes in the new node’s local world.
Note that Equation (16) is a theoretical probability ex-
pression. Two key issues in practical simulations require
engineering solutions: 1) Floating-point precision limitations
can lead to some nodes’ calculated probabilities approaching
0 (not strictly 0) or the total probability deviating from 1,
violating random sampling’s probability axioms; 2) In extreme
scenarios (e.g., high proportion of low-degree nodes in the
local world), valid selectable nodes may be fewer than the
preset connection count m, causing direct probability-based
sampling to fail. To ensure connection selection’s stability,
legality, and accuracy, final node sampling follows two steps:
• Probability Preprocessing and Normalization: Extract
candidate nodes and their initial probabilities from the
local world, and construct a probability array. Replace ex-
tremely small values (less than ϵ) with ϵ to avoid effective
probability loss from rounding errors, then normalize the
array to ensure the total probability is strictly 1, meeting
random sampling’s mathematical premise.
• Without-Replacement
Sampling:
Count
valid
nodes
(probability > ϵ). If fewer than m, adopt random without-
replacement sampling as a fallback; otherwise, sample
based on normalized hybrid attachment probabilities.
This adheres to Equation (16)’s design, avoids duplicate
connections to the same node, and aligns with VANETs’
single-link communication.
These engineering adaptations realize seamless integration
of the theoretical model and simulation practice, ensuring the
hybrid attachment strategy aligns with the original design and
boosting the algorithm’s robustness in complex scenarios.
Step 4: Real-time Degree Distribution Update. New
OBUs broadcast updated degree information via extended
Beacon frames (2-byte payload expansion). Neighbors update
local degree sums P
j∈Local kj to enable dynamic feedback
regulation.
The following section will demonstrate that continuous
adjustment of p ∈[0, 1] enables smooth transition of at-
tachment behavior from purely uniform to purely preferential,
thereby providing rigorous mathematical support for dynamic
scheduling of VANET degree distributions across exponential
and power-law regimes.
IV. ANALYSIS OF DEGREE DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULING
CHARACTERISTICS
This section employs the mean-field approach to theoreti-
cally derive the degree distribution under different values of
p, clarifying its schedulable range and parametric behavior to
validate the model’s adaptability across VANET scenarios.
(1) When p = 1: Purely Uniform Attachment
A new OBU selects nodes within its local world with equal
probability, reducing network evolution to a growth process
without preferential attachment. The rate of change of degree
ki for node i is:
∂ki
∂t =
Mi
m0 + t · m
Mi
=
m
m0 + t
(17)
Given the initial condition at its joining time ti: ki(ti) = m.
Integrating the rate equation yields:
ki(t) = m
Z t
ti
m0 + τ dτ + C
(18)
Solving with the initial condition gives the degree-time rela-
tionship:
ki(t) = m

ln m0 + t
m0 + ti
+ 1

(19)
Under the continuous approximation, the degree distribution
can be derived from the uniform joining time distribution of
nodes, P(ti) = 1/t for 0 ≤ti ≤t. Let T = m0 + t and
Ti = m0 + ti, then:
k = m

ln T
Ti
+ 1

(20)
which gives Ti = Te1−k/m.
The cumulative distribution function is given by F(k) =
P(ki(t) ≤k). Since ki(t) decreases as Ti increases:
ki(t) ≤k ⇔Ti ≥Te1−k/m
(21)
With Ti uniformly distributed over [m0, T] with density
T −m0 :
F(k) = P(Ti ≥Te1−k/m) = T −Te1−k/m
T −m0
(22)
For large t where T ≈t and T −m0 ≈t: F(k) ≈1−e1−k/m.
The probability density function is then:
P(k) = dF(k)
dk
= e
me−k/m.
(23)
This confirms an exponential degree distribution with uniform
node degrees and no significant hubs. As k increases, P(k)
decays exponentially, making high-degree nodes rare. Suitable
for interference-resistant VANET scenarios (e.g., urban con-
gestion), this distribution maintains basic connectivity under
node failures with strong robustness against targeted attacks,
albeit at the cost of longer average transmission paths.
(2) When p = 0: Purely Preferential Attachment
New OBUs select nodes solely through preferential attach-
ment within their local world, reducing the model to the
baseline localized VANET model. The rate of change of node
i’s degree is:
∂ki
∂t = m ·
Mi
m0 + t ·
ki
P
j∈Local kj
(24)
The average node degree and local world degree sum are:
⟨k⟩= 2mt + m0(m0 −1)
m0 + t
,
(25)
X
j∈Local
kj = Mi · ⟨k⟩
(26)
For large t, the term m0(m0−1) becomes negligible, yielding:
⟨k⟩≈
2mt
m0 + t
(27)
Substituting into the rate equation gives:
∂ki
∂t =
m
m0 + t · ki
⟨k⟩≈
m
m0 + t ·
ki
2mt
m0+t
= ki
2t
(28)
Similarly, applying the initial condition ki(ti) = m, the
degree-time relationship is solved as:
ki(t) = m
 t
ti
1/2
(29)
Using the continuum approach with P(ti) = 1/t for 0 ≤
ti ≤t, equation (29) yields ti = m2tk−2. Since k decreases
with increasing ti, that is, nodes that join earlier have larger
degrees, the cumulative distribution function becomes:
F(k) = P(ki ≤k) = P(ti ≥m2tk−2) = 1 −m2k−2
(30)
Here, it is required that m2tk−2 ≥t, which is equivalent to
k ≥m, and m2tk−2 ≥0 holds automatically, then:
P(k) = dF(k)
dk
= 2m2k−3
(31)
Thus, the degree distribution follows a power law:
P(k) ∝2m2k−3
(32)
This regime produces a scale-free network with few high-
degree hubs, suitable for low-latency VANET scenarios (e.g.,
highways). Hub nodes shorten communication paths, meeting
delay-sensitive application requirements, but create vulnerabil-
ity to targeted attacks where hub failure may cause localized
network disruption.
(3) When 0 < p < 1: Hybrid Attachment
New OBUs employ both uniform and preferential attach-
ment, representing the model’s typical operational regime. For
large t, the rate of change of node i’s degree is:
∂ki
∂t =
mp
m0 + t + ki(1 −p)
2t
≈mp
t
+ ki(1 −p)
2t
(33)
Similarly, by solving the differential equation in Formula (33)
and combining it with the initial condition ki(ti) = m, the
relationship between the node degree and the time step can be
derived, that is
ki(t) = m(1 + p)
1 −p
·
 t
ti
 1−p
−2mp
1 −p
(34)
Let β = 1−p
2 , A = m(1+p)
1−p , B = 2mp
1−p . Through algebraic
derivation:
k = A
 t
ti
β
−B
(35)
ti = t
k + B
A
−1/β
(36)
The cumulative distribution function is:
F(k) = P(ki ≤k) = P
 
ti ≥t
k + B
A
−1/β!
(37)
Since ki decreases with increasing ti, further derivation yields:
F(k) = 1 −t ·
  k+B
A
−1/β
t
= 1 −
k + B
A
−1/β
(38)
The probability density function is obtained by differentia-
tion:
P(k) = dF(k)
dk
= −d
dk
"
A
k + B
1/β#
(39)
Differentiating

A
k+B
1/β
:
d
dk

A
k + B
1/β
= 1
β

A
k + B
 1
β −1
· A ·

−
(k + B)2

= −1
β A1/β(k + B)−1/β−1
Thus:
P(k) = −

−1
β A1/β(k + B)−1/β−1

= 1
β A1/β(k+B)−1/β−1
(40)
Substituting A, β, and B yields the final probability density
function:
P(k) =
1 −p
m(1 + p)
1 −p

1−p 
k + 2mp
1 −p
−3−p
1−p
(41)
Fig. 2. Net of an area to the east of the Forbidden City in Beijing.
Letting C =
1−p
h
m(1+p)
1−p
i
1−p , a =
2mp
1−p , γ =
3−p
1−p, we
obtain:
P(k) = C · (k + a)−γ ∝(k + a)−γ
(42)
This indicates the degree distribution approximately follows
a tunable power law. With 0 < p < 1, γ
> 3, and
increasing with p, the distribution transitions gradually from a
steep power-law (close to BA model) to a flatter exponential
form. The number of hub nodes decreases while node degrees
become more uniformly distributed.
Algorithm 1: VANET Simulation Procedure
Initialization: Configure the SUMO environment, the
random seed, define data structures for storing
connection pairs and node degrees.
Launch SUMO and deploy RSUs.
1: for each simulation step do
2:
a. Advance the simulation by one step; retrieve
currently active OBUs and their positions.
3:
b. Remove invalid connections: Disconnect nodes that
are out of communication range or have left the scene;
update node degrees accordingly.
4:
c. Establish new connections:
5:
For each OBU, filter RSUs and OBUs within
communication range to form a local node set.
6:
Select m nodes from local set by Equation (16).
7:
Establish new connections and update the degrees
of corresponding nodes.
8:
d. Calculate metrics such as the proportion of the
largest connected component and degree variance;
record results into statistics.
9: end for
10: Terminate the simulation; save every step statistics, final
topology, and degree distribution to files.
V. SIMULATION EXPERIMENTS AND RESULT ANALYSIS
To validate the degree distribution schedulability and sce-
nario adaptability of the proposed model, an experimental
X-coordinate (0.00
1426.16m)
Y-coordinate (0.00
1145.47m)
X-coordinate (0.00
1426.16m)
Y-coordinate (0.00
1145.47m)
X-coordinate (0.00
1426.16m)
Y-coordinate (0.00
1145.47m)
5
15
25
node degree
50
150
250
node number
Actual degree distribution
Theoretical power-law distribution k
0
10
node degree
20
60
100
node number
Actual degree distribution
Theoretical adjustable power-law distribution = 5.00
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
node degree
20
60
node number
Actual degree distribution
Theoretical index distribution m = 3
Fig. 3. Topological links and corresponding degree distributions under differ-
ent p, with upper, middle, and lower subfigures corresponding to p = 0.0, 0.5,
and 1.0, respectively.
environment is constructed based on SUMO and Python. All
experiments are conducted on a system equipped with a 12th
Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-12400F CPU @ 2.50GHz processor
and 16GB RAM. The software configuration consisted of
Anaconda3-2021.11-Windows-x86_64 and Python 3.8.
Using the OSMWebWizard.py tool provided by SUMO, a
real road network section (1426.16 × 1145.47 m) east of
Beijing’s Forbidden City is extracted from OpenStreetMap as
the simulation scenario. The network is processed by retaining
only motor-vehicle routes and rendered as shown in Fig. 2.
Vehicle traffic trajectories are generated via randomTrips.py,
with one new OBU joining per second. For simplicity, RSUs
are deployed at key intersections. Following the IEEE 802.11p
protocol, the communication range is set to 300 m for OBUs
and 500 m for RSUs. The procedure for the simulation
implementation code is presented in Algorithm 1.
To clearly observe the distribution patterns under differ-
ent values of p, we randomly generated 200 OBU nodes
within the imported road network and constructed topological
connections according to different p values. The resulting
degree distributions are shown in Fig. 3. The experimental
results align well with theoretical expectations. In the topology
diagrams, node radius scales with degree to visually emphasize
hubs. When p = 0.0, distinct large hub nodes emerge, form-
ing a centralized rich-get-richer structure. This configuration
shortens transmission paths in highway scenarios but remains
vulnerable to hub failures. At p = 0.5, hub concentration
moderates, balancing latency optimization and interference
resistance for suburban environments. With p = 1.0, nodes
0
200
400
600
800
Simulation step
100
300
Variance of all node degrees
p=0.0
p=0.3
p=0.5
p=0.7
p=1.0
Fig. 4. Variance of all node degrees.
100
300
500
700
Simulation step
200
600
1000
Variance of RSU node degrees
p=0.0
p=0.3
p=0.5
p=0.7
p=1.0
Fig. 5. Variance of RSU node degrees.
exhibit minimal size variation with uniformly distributed links,
enhancing resilience against node failures in urban congestion.
In terms of degree distribution, the empirical distribution at
p = 0.0 closely aligns with the theoretical power-law k−3,
exhibiting characteristics of a scale-free network where a few
nodes possess extremely high degrees while the majority have
low connectivity. At p = 0.5, the empirical distribution fits
well with the theoretical tunable power-law with γ = 5.0,
demonstrating a degree inequality that lies between the cases
of p = 0 and p = 1. When p = 1.0, the empirical distribution
follows the theoretical exponential trend. Due to the pure
uniform attachment rule, node degrees concentrate around the
mean, eliminating the prevalence of very low-degree nodes.
This results in a small first-bin value, a typical feature distin-
guishing exponential from power-law distributions, reflecting
how uniform attachment leads to degree distributions clustered
near the average.
Figs. 4 and 5 illustrate the dynamic evolution of node degree
variance under different hybrid attachment probabilities p over
800 simulation steps. Throughout the simulation, the degree
variance exhibits significant fluctuations due to continuous
topological dynamics. The initial increase arises from new
OBUs joining and establishing connections, rapidly amplify-
ing degree disparities during the early growth phase. RSUs
demonstrate a more prolonged growth period, as their larger
communication range and fixed positioning enable sustained
link formation with incoming nodes. Notably, degree variance
consistently decreases with increasing p for both all nodes
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
p values
0.97
0.98
0.99
1.00
Relative size of the LCC
random attack intensity 0.1
random attack intensity 0.15
random attack intensity 0.2
random attack intensity 0.25
random attack intensity 0.3
Fig. 6. Random attack trend.
and RSUs. This trend confirms that higher uniform attachment
probability effectively suppresses degree heterogeneity by dis-
tributing connections more evenly within local worlds, thereby
mitigating the rich-get-richer effect. At any given p, RSUs
maintain substantially higher variance than the network-wide
average. This disparity stems from their strategic deployment
at key locations (e.g., intersections), which ensures higher
baseline connectivity, and the inherent heterogeneity in their
spatial distribution leading to varied interaction opportunities.
To quantify the connectivity robustness of VANETs under
attack, a stable simulation step is selected, and the metric
relative size of the Largest Connected Component (LCC) is
introduced. This metric is defined as the ratio of the number of
nodes in the largest connected component to the total number
of nodes in the network. It directly quantifies the preservation
of large-scale connectivity after node failures, aligning with the
requirement for continuous V2V communication in VANETs
and serving as a core measure of network survivability.
Fig. 6 shows the variation of the LCC size with the hybrid
attachment probability p under different intensities of random
attacks. The results indicate that regardless of the attack inten-
sity, the LCC size remains consistently above 0.97 and shows
no significant fluctuation as p changes. This stability occurs
because random attacks disrupt nodes indiscriminately and are
unlikely to cripple critical connective nodes. The remaining
nodes can maintain large-scale connectivity through existing
links, demonstrating that VANETs possess strong inherent
robustness against random attacks. Their connectivity remains
nearly unaffected by either the type of degree distribution or
the intensity of such random failures.
Fig. 7 illustrates the variation in the relative size of LCC
under different intensities of targeted attacks as a function of
the parameter p. Since targeted attacks deliberately remove
high-degree nodes, their impact on connectivity strongly de-
pends on both the attack intensity and the value of p. Under
low-intensity attacks, only a slight fluctuation is observed
near p = 0, without a significant drop in LCC size. This
is because, even after some hub nodes are removed, the
remaining hubs and numerous ordinary nodes retain sufficient
alternative pathways to maintain large-scale connectivity. In
contrast, under high-intensity attacks, the LCC size drops
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
p values
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Relative size of the LCC
targeted attack intensity 0.1
targeted attack intensity 0.15
targeted attack intensity 0.2
targeted attack intensity 0.25
targeted attack intensity 0.3
Fig. 7. Targeted attack trend.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
p
6
10
14
18
Average path length
m=1
m=2
m=3
Fig. 8. Average path length of information transmission.
sharply at p = 0 but gradually recovers to nearly 1.0 as
p increases. This demonstrates that increasing p, thereby
enhancing the proportion of uniform attachment, shifts the
VANET from a hub-dependent architecture toward a more
distributed topology, significantly improving its robustness
against targeted attacks. Conversely, the power-law network
at p = 0, which relies heavily on a few critical hubs, remains
highly vulnerable to such attacks.
Fig. 8 compares the variation of average path length with
parameter p under different initial connection numbers m for
new nodes. The results represent averages over 10 simulation
steps. For all values of m, the average path length increases
with p. This occurs because as p increases, regulating the
balance between uniform and preferential attachment, the
degree distribution shifts from a pure power-law (under pref-
erential attachment) to a tunable power-law variant, eventually
approaching an exponential distribution (under uniform attach-
ment). This progression reduces the availability of efficient
hub-based routing paths, forcing information to traverse more
intermediate nodes.
Notably, for m = 2 and m = 3, the average path length re-
mains relatively short and shows low sensitivity to changes in
p. This stability stems from higher initial connectivity: during
the preferential attachment phase, multiple initial connections
enhance the multi-path relay capability of hubs, maintaining
short paths. Even as uniform attachment increases with p, the
dense connectivity provides ample alternative routes, prevent-
ing significant path elongation. In contrast, the sparse network
with m = 1 exhibits longer paths and greater sensitivity to p,
as the limited connectivity amplifies the impact of hub dilution
on routing efficiency.
VI. CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION
This paper addressed the topological governance challenges
in localized VANET under dynamic traffic scenarios by
proposing a schedulable degree distribution model based on
a hybrid attachment mechanism. Through theoretical analysis
and simulation experiments, we systematically demonstrated
the model’s core capability: by adjusting the hybrid attachment
probability p, the network degree distribution can transition
continuously between an exponential and a power-law dis-
tribution. This enabled dynamic trade-offs between network
robustness and low-latency transmission efficiency. Simulation
results confirmed that increasing p effectively suppressed
node degree heterogeneity and enhanced tolerance to targeted
attacks, albeit at the cost of reduced transmission efficiency.
Conversely, decreasing p promoted hub formation, shortend
the average path length to meet low-latency demands, but in-
troduced vulnerability to hub failures. These findings validated
the model’s potential to provide a novel governance paradigm
with a malleable underlying topology for diverse scenarios
such as urban congestion and suburban highways.
However, this study has certain limitations. The core tuning
parameter p is currently treated as a pre-defined static value,
requiring manual configuration or prior knowledge of the
external environment. This open-loop control paradigm cannot
adequately respond to the real-time, nonlinear variations in
environmental factors like vehicle density, mobility speed, and
communication load within VANETs, thus failing to fully
unlock the model’s potential for autonomous, closed-loop
governance in realistic dynamic settings.
Looking forward, we aim to transition the model from being
merely schedulable to becoming self-scheduling. A highly
promising direction is the integration of Deep Reinforcement
Learning (DRL) to address the aforementioned limitations.
Specifically, future work will focus on developing a DRL
agent that continuously perceives the network state (e.g., node
density, connection dynamics, historical attack frequency) as
its input, uses the hybrid attachment weighting as its action
output, and operates based on a reward function designed to
optimize long-term network performance (e.g., comprehen-
sively balancing connectivity, latency, and energy consump-
tion). This approach would enable VANETs to autonomously
and intelligently adapt their topological generation strategies
in real-time according to operational contexts, ultimately re-
alizing a truly adaptive and resilient intelligent transportation
network system.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Manasrah, Q. Yaseen, H. Al-Aqrabi, and L. Liu, “Identity-based
authentication in VANETs: A review,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, vol. 26, pp. 4260–4282, Apr. 2025.
[2] P. Suman, S. Padhy, and et al., “An improved deep learning-based
intrusion detection for reliable communication in VANET,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Consumer Electronics, vol. 71, pp. 209–217, Feb. 2025.
[3] R. Ren, J. Zhao, and Q. Zhang, “UAV-assisted collaborative sensing
task offloading and resource allocation in IoV,” IEEE Transactions on
Vehicular Technology, pp. 1–10, 2025.
[4] R. Ren, J. Zhao, D. Zou, Q. Zhang, D. Wang, and W. Xu, “Collaborative
computation in integrated sensing, communication, and computation
system for autonomous driving,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 883–894, Jan. 2026.
[5] J. Zhao, R. Ren, Y. Nie, and D. Wang, “Decision intelligence empower-
ing resource management for 6G-V2X communications,” IEEE Internet
of Things Magazine, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 88–96, Nov. 2025.
[6] M. S. HaghighiFard and S. Coleri, “Hierarchical federated learning
in multi-hop cluster-based VANETs,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular
Technology, vol. 74, pp. 15371–15385, Oct. 2025.
[7] D. Jiang and L. Delgrossi, “IEEE 802.11p: Towards an international
standard for wireless access in vehicular environments,” in VTC Spring
2008 - IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, pp. 2036–2040, May
2008.
[8] R. Ren, J. Zhao, Y. Li, D. Zou, Q. Zhang, and Y. Gong, “DRL-based
performance optimization of IoT integrated sensing, communication, and
computation systems,” in 2024 3rd International Joint Conference on
Information and Communication Engineering (JCICE), pp. 134–138,
2024.
[9] J. Zhao, R. Ren, D. Zou, Q. Zhang, and W. Xu, “IoV-oriented integrated
sensing, computation, and communication: System design and resource
allocation,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 73, no. 11,
pp. 16283–16294, Nov. 2024.
[10] R. Ren, J. Zhao, Q. Zhang, D. Wang, and J. Li, “DRL beamforming
in RIS-aided IoV for integrated-sensing-communication-computation,”
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 12, no. 14, pp. 28201–28213, Jul.
2025.
[11] W. El-Shafai, A. T. Azar, and S. Ahmed, “AI-driven ensemble classifier
for jamming attack detection in VANETs to enhance security in smart
cities,” IEEE Access, vol. 13, pp. 50687–50713, Mar. 2025.
[12] Y. Yao, J. Zhao, Z. Li, X. Cheng, and L. Wu, “Jamming and
eavesdropping defense scheme based on deep reinforcement learning
in autonomous vehicle networks,” IEEE Transactions on Information
Forensics and Security, vol. 18, pp. 1211–1224, Jan. 2023.
[13] M. Tao, G. Zhang, D. Zou, and J. Zhao, “Driven communication conges-
tion in connected vehicle networks: A complexity metrics approach,” in
2025 IEEE/CIC International Conference on Communications in China
(ICCC Workshops), pp. 1–6, Sept. 2025.
[14] Z. Wu, Z. He, Q. Lin, J. Wang, and G. Li, “Vehicular ad hoc networks
topology optimization for autonomous intersection management system:
A periodic intervention-based approach,” IEEE Transactions on Intelli-
gent Transportation Systems, vol. 25, pp. 16005–16023, Nov. 2024.
[15] W. K. Ahmed, M. N. M. Warip, M. E. E. S. Ahmed, and P. Ehkan,
“Multipoint relay path for efficient topology maintenance algorithm in
optimized link state routing-based for VANET,” International journal of
Computer Networks & Communications, vol. 16, Jan. 2024.
[16] M. M. Alam, M. Y. Arafat, S. Moh, and J. Shen, “Topology control
algorithms in multi-unmanned aerial vehicle networks: An extensive
survey,” Journal of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 207,
p. 103495, Nov. 2022.
[17] M. Pirani, S. Baldi, and K. H. Johansson, “Impact of network topology
on the resilience of vehicle platoons,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, vol. 23, pp. 15166–15177, Sept. 2022.
[18] C. Bian, J. Zhao, X. Sun, X. Li, and D. Zou, “Network connectivity
performance analysis of platoon-based vehicular ad-hoc network on
a two-way lane,” in 2019 IEEE International Conference on Signal,
Information and Data Processing (ICSIDP), pp. 1–5, Aug. 2019.
[19] G. B. Santhi, S. S. Jacob, and et al., “Traffic coordination by reducing
jamming attackers in VANET using probabilistic manhattan grid topol-
ogy for automobile applications,” Scientific Reports, vol. 14, Apr. 2024.
[20] K. Nagababu, A. Vanathi, R. Ratheesh, C. Nalini, G. Karthikeyan, and
F. F. Vinnarasi, “Traffic congestion reduction using fuzzy optimization
scheme in heterogeneous vehicular communication network,” in 2024
International Conference on Innovative Computing, Intelligent Commu-
nication and Smart Electrical Systems (ICSES), pp. 1–6, 2024.
[21] A. Annu and P. Rajalakshmi, “Enhancing sidelink 5G V2V communica-
tion: A distributed probabilistic congestion control for dynamic resource
allocation,” in 2023 IEEE International Conference on Advanced Net-
works and Telecommunications Systems (ANTS), pp. 1–6, Mar. 2023.
[22] Z. Hu, Y. Li, and S. Tang, “Efficient caching and spreading of traffic
videos by optimized topology in IoV,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular
Technology, vol. 73, pp. 11821–11833, Aug. 2024.
[23] M. I. Habelalmateen, D. Jawad Hashim, B. Arunagiri, K. Aljawaheri,
F. H. Alsalamy, and I. Badi Khalaf, “An effectual approach for mobility
and traffic monitoring based VANET’s routing protocol in urban en-
vironment,” in 2025 11th International Conference on Communication
and Signal Processing (ICCSP), pp. 1130–1134, Jul. 2025.
[24] G. K. Verma, S. Rana, A. Tiwari, N. Kumar, and A. Barnawi, “Dynamic
anonymous hierarchical edge-assisted batch verifiable authentication
for VANETs,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 74,
pp. 14735–14744, Sept. 2025.
[25] J. Zhao, F. Huang, L. Liao, and Q. Zhang, “Blockchain-based trust
management model for vehicular ad hoc networks,” IEEE Internet of
Things Journal, vol. 11, pp. 8118–8132, Mar. 2024.
[26] F. Huang, Q. Li, and J. Zhao, “Trust management model of VANETs
based on machine learning and active detection technology,” in 2022
IEEE/CIC International Conference on Communications in China
(ICCC Workshops), pp. 412–416, Oct. 2022.
[27] J. Zhao, Y. Guo, L. Liao, and D. Wang, “A blockchain-based efficient
traceability authentication scheme in VANET,” Digital Communications
and Networks, May 2025.
[28] N. T. Yang, S. F. Abdul Razak, S. Yogarayan, and N. H. Kamis,
“Assessing implications of black hole attacks on VANET performance,”
in 2024 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain,
Cloud Computing, and Data Analytics (ICoABCD), pp. 90–94, Oct.
2024.
[29] A.-L. Barabási and R. Albert, “Emergence of scaling in random net-
works,” Science, vol. 286, pp. 509–512, Oct. 1999.
[30] R. Albert, H. Jeong, and A.-L. Barabási, “Error and attack tolerance of
complex networks,” Nature, vol. 406, pp. 378–382, Jul. 2000.
[31] Y. Zhang, “Research on construction methods of wireless sensor net-
works based on complex network theory,” Master’s thesis, Beijing
Jiaotong University, Beijing, China, 2024.
[32] R. Albert and A.-L. Barabási, “Statistical mechanics of complex net-
works,” Reviews of Modern Physics, vol. 74, pp. 47–97, Jan. 2002.